Teaching as a career and measuring the factors affect novice teachers'
job satisfaction: Findings from 7 provinces in Vietnam

Pham Thi Thanh Hai^a^, Bui Minh Trang^a^

^a^University of Education, Vietnam National University Hanoi, 144 Xuan
Thuy, Cau Giay, Hanoi, Vietnam

Highlights

-   **A**

-   **B**

-   **C**

-   **D**

Abstract

The purpose of the study was to understanding what motivates novice
teacher to choose teaching as a career and measuring the factor affect
novice teachers' job satisfaction. Quantitative surveys were conducted
in 7 provinces in Vietnam, of.... primary schools, 320 novice teachers
participated. Result showed that novice teachers chose teaching mainly
because of enjoying working with children and further study opportunity.
Novice teachers hold high regards to the career in Vietnam. The
investigation of the variables associated with job satisfaction is
expected to provide the basis for planning and policy decisions aimed at
enhancing teacher work commitment and reducing turnover.

*Keywords:* novice teachers; job satisfaction; teaching career; work
performance; work motivation

1.  **Introduction**

In developing country, educational system is usually favored as the
vital polar for development. Competent teachers are fundamental basis to
the achieve an efficient educational system. In the McKinsey's report on
"How the good school systems in the world reach to the highest peak",
many evidence indicate the fact that quality of teachers is the
fundamental drive to student's learning and achievement (Barber and
Mourshed, 2007). There are increasing consents among educators and
researchers that the quality of teachers is the single most essential
factor influence student performance. The noteworthy studies show the
strong connection between the student's study and teacher's
professionalization (Desimone, 2009; Yoon et al., 2007) as well as
international comparative (Wei et.al., 2009). Teaching although is
considered a complicated profession that one encounters massive
challenge (Mansfield et al., 2016). Indeed, teachers' profession,
working condition, status and accomplishment affect to their choice of
action, quality and output in teaching (Grion & Varisco, 2007). Research
shows that teachers, among numerous career, face the highest level of
stress and dissatisfaction (Lomas et al., 2017). Consequently, many
teachers choose to quit the job during the first five years (Gaikhorst
et al., 2014). Although some evidence state that the teachers achieve
effectiveness in working after few years, however they do not remain
long enough to reach this high-skilled level (Fantilli and McDougall,
2009). In fact, the accomplishment of an educational organization,
student performance can to an extensive degree be measured by the level
of job satisfaction of its teachers (Pepe, 2017).

Chaaban, Y. and Du, X. (2017) According to international research,
novice teachers may experience several challenges as they adapt to their
new roles as professionals. During the transition from support and
dependence to sole responsibility and independence ([Le Maistre & Paré,
2010](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib25)),
novice teachers have been described as experiencing praxis shock
([Veenman,
1984](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib37)),
reality shock ([Huberman,
1989](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib19))
or transfer shock ([Caspersen & Raaen,
2014](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib5)). [Feiman-Nemser
(2012)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib14) portrays
this transition period as "a time of intense learning" and "intense
loneliness" (p. 10).

Education is always highlighted as the keystone of its national
development in Vietnam. Vietnamese government distributes nearly 20
percent of public expenditures to education (OECD, 2011). Many strategy
and reform are still carried out in order to achieve more competitive
labor force. At a time when other careers offer higher salaries, clearer
pathways for career development, greater social prestige, and more
agreeable working conditions (OECD, 2005; Ramsay, 2000), teaching would
seem to be less attractive as a career than it was 30 years ago. With
increasing shortages of teachers there has been renewed interest in the
U.K., the United States, Europe, Australia, and Asia in understanding
what motivates people to choose teaching as a career and what motivates
them to persist, particularly since the actual work experience of
teachers has become more complex and demanding (OECD, 2005). In
Vietnamese context, a few studies on job satisfaction have been carried
out (Tran and Le, 2015; Duong, 2013). Although the researches only
conduct at high school (Tran and Le, 2015) and university level (Duong,
2013). Nevertheless, the data of educational research in Vietnam is
still limited for study and international access.

Researchers identified and took measures particular factors affecting
job satisfaction of novice teachers in Vietnam, in 7 provinces across
Vietnam: Ha Giang, Nghe An, Hai Phong, Quang Nam, Gia Lai, Tay Ninh and
Can Tho. Through the studies, the researcher identified the particular
aspects of their jobs that teachers are satisfied or dissatisfied in
considering with the study of the choice of decision and feelings toward
their chosen career. Only after gaining an understanding of these
factors the researcher analyzed and effectively suggested the motivation
to increase novice teachers' enthusiasm in work. Moreover, the studies
also provided the basis for the other researchers, educators, policy
makers, educational management to further study to enhance teachers'
work commitment and reduce turnover.

A review of theoretical background on teaching career and job
satisfaction are set as the ground to analyze and study the influencing
factors on novice teachers' job satisfaction.

1.  *Teaching as a career*

Research studies mainly indicate three basic types or categories of
motives for selecting teaching as a career: a. extrinsic motives such as
salary, lengthy holidays; b. intrinsic motives such as interest,
personal experience, and intellectual fulfillment, and c. altruistic
motives as wanting to contribute to the growth of another individual
(Moran et al., 2001; Brookhart and Freeman, 1992). These researchers
highlighted intrinsic, extrinsic and altruistic motivations as the most
important groups of reasons influencing teachers' career choice.
Identified motivations have included working with children and
adolescents, making a social contribution, making a difference, job
security, job benefits, enjoyment of teaching, compatibility with other
interests and activities, compatibility with family life, and
self-education (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
\[OECD\], 2005).

Apart from traditional conceptualizations, starting from 1950s, several
theories of career choice have been developed. One of the earliest ones
is Super's self-concept theory (1953) which drew upon the role of
individuals' perception of self in choosing a career. According to the
theory, the question "Who I am?" is a key factor that plays a
determinative role in individuals' choosing a profession. Another theory
proposed by Gottfredson (1981) asserts that career choice is determined
by two variables, that is, sex-type rating and prestige level, which
means that people choose particular occupations by examining features of
that job regarding its suitability to their gender and its level of
prestige.

Using both qualitative and quantitative techniques for investigation,
majority of the study base their interpretations on the traditional
classification of intrinsic, extrinsic and altruistic attractors. For
example, Hayes (1990) found that in a cohort of American students
entering teaching altruistic reasons such as making a positive
difference in the lives of children were more significant. Similarly,
Stiegelbauer (1992) reported that with Canadian prospective teachers,
the need to make a difference to students and society as well as the
desire to be role models for students emerged as the main themes for
entering the profession. Hammond (2002), in a small scale study
including trainee teachers of information and communication technology,
found that trainees frequently drew upon their own past experience of
teaching as well as their own interest to explain their career choice.

On the other hand, in their comparative study of Norwegian and British
pre-service teachers, Kyriacou et al. (1999) reported that the
participants rated "enjoying teaching" and "enjoying working with
children" higher than the other factors, placing more emphasis on
intrinsic reasons. Yet, in another study, Sinclair (2008) found that
prospective teachers are multi-motivated. In her study, the primary
pre-service teachers stated to have the necessary qualities and
attributes to be teachers and to work with children as their basic
sources of motivation to become teachers besides the factor that they
found teaching intellectually stimulating.

As can be seen, it is difficult to generalize the reasons why students
choose teaching as a career. The variety in their responses may be due
to the cultural, social, and economic contexts they live in (Kyriacou et
al., 1999) as well as the subject areas they will teach. Indeed,
motivations for career choices are forged from personal values and
expectancies, experienced in particular sociocultural settings within
the context of different demand and reward structures (Watt et.al.,
2012)

2.  *Teacher job satisfaction*

Job satisfaction is considered a motivational concept and refers to how
teachers generally feel about their jobs ([Skaalvik & Skaalvik,
2015](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib34);
Locke, 1976). Job satisfaction has been noted as an important factor
influencing teacher enthusiasm, teacher-student relationships and
teacher retention (Skaalvik & Skaalvik, 2010). When teachers are
motivated and have a high degree of job satisfaction student do better
in school, become motivated, and as a result, teachers become motivated
by their students' success and positive cycle continues (Czubaj, 1996).

One of the most widely recognized theories of job satisfaction utilized
in educational settings has been that of Herzberg, Mausner and Snyderman
(Dinham & Scott, 2000). Dinham and Scott (1997) argued that job
satisfaction is directly connected and affected by different job
motivators. There has also been an effort to define job satisfaction as
a dependent variable explained by different factors. Job satisfaction is
based on the theory of human motivation of Maslow (1943), Herzberg
(1959) (Kantas, 2008). Maslow's hierarchy of needs theory remain valid
today for understanding human behavior. According to the theory, people
have five sets of needs, which follow a particular order.

Herzberg (1959) constructed a two-dimensional paradigm affecting
people\'s attitudes toward work satisfactory with satisfiers factors and
hygiene factors for work dissatisfaction. Satisfiers include factors
such as recognition, responsibility for ones work, personal growth,
achievement and advancement, while dissatisfiers (hygiene factors)
include relationships with colleagues and supervisors, pay, work
conditions and security. According to the theory, the absence of hygiene
factors can create job dissatisfaction, but their presence does not
motivate or create satisfaction. These motivators (satisfiers) were
associated with long-term positive effects in job performance while the
hygiene factors (dissatisfiers) consistently produced only short-term
changes in job attitudes and performance, which quickly fell back to its
previous level.

Despite its wide use, the two-factor theory has been criticized for
being too dependent on a particular methodology and too restricted in
its categorization of satisfiers and dissatisfiers. On the basis of his
careful factor analyses Vroom suggested that the principal components of
job satisfaction include seven aspects---administration, promotion, job
nature, superiors, salary remuneration, working conditions, and
colleagues (Vroom, V. H., 1964). Friedlander used factor analysis to
elicit three factors: social and technical environment (such aspects as
superiors, interpersonal relationships, and working conditions),
self-fulfillment (opportunities to exercise potentials), and recognition
(challenging nature of the job, responsibilities, wages, promotions, and
so on) (Evans, L., 1997). The more influential work of Smith, Kendall,
and Hulin suggested five factors---nature of the job, wage, promotions,
superiors, and colleagues (Garrett, R.M., 1999). There are also studies
which have examined many factors affecting teacher job satisfaction in
addition to demographic variables and looked at environmental and mental
factors such as the climate of the organization, its size, occupation
prestige, occupation stress, personality traits and leadership behavior
(Form and Geschwender, 1962; Hodson, 1985).

Several studies have concluded that job satisfaction has positive
consequences for the individual and the school ([Corbell et al., 2010;
Høigaard, Giske, & Sundsli, 2012; Malinen & Savolainen,
2016](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib7)).
Novice teachers who experience high levels of job satisfaction are more
motivated, committed and determined to remain in the profession despite
job demands ([Tait,
2008](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib35)).
They are able to focus their attention and energy on the growth of
students and their own personal growth ([Lam & Yan,
2011](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib24)),
leading to enhanced teacher productivity and improved educational
outcomes ([Moè et al.,
2010](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib30)).
At the organizational level, job satisfaction leads to better
interpersonal relationships among colleagues and enhanced cooperation
with supervisors ([Amorim Neto, Rodrigues, & Panzer,
2017](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib1)).

By contrast, novice teachers at risk of leaving the profession express
strong dissatisfaction with their work environment, frustration with
interpersonal relationships, and discontentment with mentoring support
([Gaikhorst et al.,
2014](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib15)).
Dissatisfied teachers become demotivated, thus, losing the ability to
motivate their own students and cater to their diverse needs ([Moè
et al.,
2010](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib30)). 

A few studies have examined teachers' perceptions of their jobs and
career commitment, but they all used limited data. Fewer student
discipline problems, good facilities, teacher induction, and
professional support were correlated with high teacher morale and career
commitment. Cockburn (2000) interviewed a dozen primary school teachers
who enjoyed their jobs and suggested that increasing teachers'
involvement in curriculum innovation and inspection would improve their
professional lives and career commitment. Bogler (2002) showed that
teachers' occupational perceptions contributed to the separation of
teachers with a high level of job satisfaction from those with a low
level of job satisfaction. Weiss's study looked only at 1st-year
teachers, and the other two studies did not use nationally
representative data to substantiate teachers' views.

The literature in organizational psychology further shows that both
exogenous and endogenous factors can produce the moods and emotions
related to job satisfaction. Lifestyle, disposition, sociocultural, and
biological factors can all affect the feelings people experience at
work. Exogenous factors are important for understanding organizational
behavior, it is easy to identify them, but difficult to explain how they
actually work. Workplace endogenous factors are widely studied and have
been grouped into several, though not necessarily exclusive, categories
that may include stressful events, leaders, workgroup characteristics,
physical settings, and organizational rewards and punishments (Brief &
Weiss, 2002). These categories reflect several important factors that
are frequently discussed in relation to teachers' feelings about their
jobs: student discipline problems, school governance, professional
support, compensation, and work conditions.

Because of growing concern about teacher satisfaction, Dinham & Scott
(2000) initiated the Teacher 2000 Project, an international program
aimed to measure teacher motivation, satisfaction, and health to inform
policy and decision-making (Dinham & Scott, 1997). This research
confirmed many aspects of Sergiovanni's (1967) and Herzberg et al.'s
(1959) studies, such as intrinsic factors that proved the most
significant aspects in determining teacher satisfaction (Dinham & Scott,
1997). Despite this core similarity, Dinham and Scott found altruism and
personal growth to be the most influential intrinsic factors, which
varies slightly from Sergiovanni's findings. Other research has found
that "teachers in different countries generally derive job satisfaction
from factors integral to the teaching job: assisting the growth of
children, developing good relationships with students, and experiencing
self-growth" (Lam & Yan, 2011, p. 336), which, similar to Dinham and
Scott (1997), indicates slight changes over time in the specific
intrinsic factors that influence teachers. The literature consistently
confirms that intrinsic factors play a central role in determining
teacher job satisfaction.

While hygiene factors similar to those identified in Sergiovanni's
research (1967) were found, the negative image of teachers in the media
is a new finding that contributes to dissatisfaction (Dinham & Scott,
1997). This change may be due to shifts in the public perception of
education as well as increased governmental involvement in schools that
have occurred during the thirty years between the two studies. Recent
studies found that significant hygiene factors for teachers include
increasing workloads, the low status that teachers hold in our society,
and low salaries (Lam & Yan, 2011) and reduced teacher autonomy (Moore,
2012; Shann, 1998).

![](media/image1.png){width="4.535416666666666in"
height="3.2741404199475066in"}

**Figure 1:** Job Satisfaction Model (Field, 2008)

While the similarities in these research findings are significant, one
major difference emerged. Dinham and Scott (1997, 2000) identified a
"third factor" of variables that, unlike satisfiers and hygiene factors,
may impact either teacher satisfaction or dissatisfaction. They found
that: *"\...there was a third broad band of factors revealed by the
study which previous research had not identified, this third or middle
band being comprised of largely school-based factors. Falling between
the universally perceived intrinsic rewards of teaching such as
self-growth and pupil achievement (most satisfying), and the universal
extrinsic hindrances to teacher satisfaction and effectiveness such as
educational change, the status of teachers and increased administrative
workloads (most dissatisfying), are school-based factors such as school
leadership, climate and decision- making, school reputation, and school
infrastructure, and it was these factors where most variation occurred
from school to school and where there is thus greatest potential for
change within schools".* (1997, p. 16) These school-based factors differ
from satisfiers because they are not intrinsic to the teacher and differ
from hygiene factors because they have the capacity to increase job
satisfaction (Dinham & Scott, 1998).

These school-based factors are of critical importance in this research
as this study focused on aspects of these less explored and more
recently identified elements of teacher satisfaction. Embedded in this
research is the assumption that educational leaders have the greatest
ability and capacity to influence a critical school-based factor that
contributes to teacher satisfaction, which is primarily "a product of
leadership" (Dinham & Scott, 1997, p. 16), as compared to leaders'
ability to influence intrinsic satisfiers and hygiene factors, which are
primarily outside the control of leaders. Skaalvik and Skaalvik (2011)
found that supervisory support contributes to teachers' sense of
belonging, which correlates with job satisfaction and a reduced
motivation to leave the profession. This study aimed to investigate
discrete leadership frameworks within this third factor that contribute
to teacher job satisfaction (See Figure 2).

![](media/image2.png){width="3.066666666666667in"
height="2.5597222222222222in"}

**Figure 2.** A three-domain model of teacher satisfaction.

Reprinted from Dinham & Scott (2000, p. 393).

School working conditions can negatively influence the job satisfaction
of novice teachers (Dinham & Scott, 1997; Lam & Yan, 2011; Rhodes et
al., 2004). Many novice teachers are given more challenging work
assignments than their veteran colleagues (Clotfelter et al., 2005;
Johnson, 2004). Kardos and Moore Johnson (2007) surveyed a random sample
of 486 first- and second-year teachers in four states and found that
while 23% of respondents indicated having fewer responsibilities than
their more experienced colleagues, 36% indicated that their workload was
too heavy, and 52% reported that they did not have enough time available
for planning and preparation. The accessibility of resources may also
influence job satisfaction as novice teachers often report that they
teach classes in multiple rooms and have insufficient supplies or
equipment (Johnson, 2004). Collie, Shapka, and Perry (2012) note an
association between resource access and job satisfaction. As Lam and Yan
(2011) state, "when the school environment allows for teachers to focus
on the core business of teaching and allows a reasonable work-life
balance, teachers are more likely to become engaged in teaching" (p.
345).

3.  *The Vietnamese educational context *

In Vietnam, education is always highlighted as the keystone of its
national development. Vietnamese government distributes nearly 20
percent of public expenditures to education.[^1] However, in the era of
globalization, Vietnamese authorities also concern that education system
is still not well equipped skills and competencies to the population in
achieving greater value and more competitive economy.[^2] Fully
understanding the importance of these challenge and addressing the
issue, in the Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) for 2011-2015, the
government highlighted that quick development of high quality human
resources is essential for the country's industrialization,
modernization, and the development of a knowledge-based economy. [^3]

In 2013, the Fundamental and Comprehensive Education Reform (FCER) was
adopted,[^4] which aims for national education to meet "the requirements
of industrialization and modernization in the socialist oriented market
economy and international integration." Whereas, general education
(grades K-12) set as the the primacy of the FCER in which learning
approaches focus more on competency- and quality-based rather than
content-based. Its purpose is to acquire higher-level of cognitive and
behavioral skills, ability to think critically and creatively, apply
knowledge from many subject areas to solve practical problems, work in
teams, and convincingly communicate verbally and in writing for
Vietnamese students [^5]. However, the realization of such a reform will
depend almost exclusively on the preparedness of the teacher to acquire
the new pedagogical model. Indeed, one of the fundamental principles of
the FCER stresses that teachers should be equipped to respond to
different and constantly changing contexts and required to become more
professional. Hence, teachers are considered as the core of the reform
process. Greater interaction between professionals, reciprocity,
hands-on mentorship, and coaching and on-time advice to teachers are
focused in the training and support activities.

Beside the positive results that teacher education in Vietnam has
contributed, the professional profile and skills, high quality and
responsive onsite continuous professional development for teachers
haven't been paid much attention. One of the biggest challenges is to
address and narrow the gap in coordination among all actors in teacher
education in order to meet the new demand. The Ministry of Education and
Training (MOET) has prepared the National Teacher Education Program
(NTEP) to enable the change more efficiently with consideration the
needs of teacher and meeting the learning objectives.[^6] The NTEP aims
to generate a comprehensive strategy for teacher education reform in
order to meet the new requirements of general education. [^7]

A significant number of studies on teachers' job satisfaction in Vietnam
are conducted, however they haven't been published internationally.
Although few studies on job satisfaction have been researched and
published, but mainly at high school (Tran and Le, 2015) and university
level (Duong, 2013). Whereas, institutional factors, such as development
aim, campus environment, leadership style, and administrational
efficiency mainly affect job satisfactory (Duong, 2013). Tran and Le
(2015) study that the main variable for teacher's job satisfaction in
high school are principal leadership, and professional interest factors,
while also provides evidences on the correlation among teachers' their
experiences of teaching efficacy, stress, and job satisfaction in
considering the school-level environment.

At a time when other careers offer higher salaries, clearer pathways for
career development, greater social prestige, and more agreeable working
conditions (OECD, 2005; Ramsay, 2000), teaching would seem to be less
attractive as a career than it was 30 years ago. With increasing
shortages of teachers there has been renewed interest in the U.K., the
United States, Europe, Australia, and Asia in understanding what
motivates people to choose teaching as a career and what motivates them
to persist, particularly since the actual work experience of teachers
has become more complex and demanding (OECD, 2005).

Therefore, this study, in addressing the gap in research, attempted to
build a body of knowledge about the novice teachers' in Vietnam and
understanding of why this particular group chooses to become teachers,
and the factors affect to their job satisfaction. The investigation of
the variables associated with novice teacher job satisfaction is also
anticipated to offer the basis for planning and policy decisions aimed
at improving teacher work commitment and minimizing turnover. It is
hoped that the results and implications will contribute to the growth of
existing literature and help researchers, school management, policy
maker, curriculum developers ameliorating the working environment and
support to novice teacher.

2.  **Methodology and Method**

A survey research design is used to investigate job satisfaction of
primary school novice teachers in Vietnam as the survey samples in the
academic year 2016. The content of the survey focused on two main
issues: (i) the reason for chosen teaching as career; (ii) the main
factors that affect to the job satisfaction. From there consider the
concerning issues and suitable adjustments for novice teachers.

4.  *Samples and settings *

The population for this study was all novice teacher in primary public
school in Vietnam (2016-2017 academic year), with the teaching
experience from 1-3 years.

The schools were selected using [random sampling
technique]{.underline}*.* The samples are novice teacher in primary
public schools across 7 economic-zone in Vietnam, selected in geographic
location, namely (1) northern midlands and mountainous area (Ha Giang
province), (2) northern Central area (Nghe An province), (3) Red river
delta area (Hai Phong province), (4) coastal province in south central
region (Quang Nam province), (5) central highlands region (Gia Lai
province), (6) south east region (Tay Ninh province) and (7) Mekong
delta region (Can Tho province), in which 60.31% are in rural area, the
rest are in the city area.

The samples accounted for 36,61% of total number of 874 novice teachers
in 7 provinces during the period of the study. The table 1 showed the
number of novice teacher, data collected from Department of Education
and Training (2016)

**Table 1:** Samples data in 7 province

+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Location  | Number of school | Number of teachers | Number of novice teachers |
|           |                  |                    |                           |
|           |                  |                    | *(2% of teachers)*        |
+===========+==================+====================+===========================+
| Ha Giang  | 228              | 6,485              | 130                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Nghe An   | 465              | 11,440             | 229                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Hai Phong | 172              | 5,286              | 106                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Quang Nam | 230              | 5,663              | 113                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Gia Lai   | 300              | 7,591              | 152                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Tay Ninh  | 221              | 3,950              | 79                        |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Can Tho   | 134              | 3,273              | 65                        |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| **Total** | **1,750**        | **43,688**         | **874**                   |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+

*Source: Data collected from Department of Education and Training in 7
provinces of sampling*

A total number of teachers in 7 provinces are 43,688, in which novice
teachers accounts for 2% (\~874 novice teachers). According to Yamane
Taro (1967) with simplified formula for proportion of samples size n =
N/(1+N\*e^2^), whereas the population size (N) = 874 and the acceptable
sampling error (e) = 0.05 (confidence level = 95% and p = 0.5), the
minimum sample should be 274.

To ensure the accuracy and response rate, the researchers distributed
questionnaires to 320 participants, using [random sampling
technique.]{.underline} The sample size accounts for 36.61% of total
novice teachers in 7 provinces. Since 74.02% of the teachers in 7
sampling provinces worked at schools that locates in rural areas,
therefore to warrant a representative sample of the population and
generalized to the population as a whole, the participated samples
(60,31% of 320 novice teachers) were from rural areas.

A total of 320 anonymous questionnaires were distributed to schools, and
all of them were returned, giving a response rate 100 %. The
participated samples of 320 novice teachers, in which consisted of
17.19% male and 78.13% female. The fact that there were more women in
the sample reflects the real situation in Vietnam, whereby there are
more female teachers than male teacher in Vietnam primary schools. The
novice teacher participated in the survey mostly were formally educated
and fully trained, 30.94% with degree in teaching, 28.95% with teaching
certificate, 20% with both degree and diploma/certificate, only 3.13%
had postgraduate qualification.

5.  *Instruments and procedure*

The questionnaire of the present study included general questions
related to the respondents' demographic and personal factors such as:
place of birth, ethnic, teaching experience, highest teaching
qualification, school location.

The questionnaire also included questions on teachers' views on career,
external environment issues such as: reason for choosing teaching,
self-evaluation on teaching career in the country, personal and
community perception on the career, view of position in next 10 years.
Furthermore, there were questions on factors which affect teachers'
satisfaction and performance and their work and career
expectations. Finally, open questions were included regarding suggestion
of how to improve teaching in the country.

The quantitative approach gathers data at a particular time with the
intention of describing the nature of existing conditions (Cohen et al.,
2000). 

The level of teachers' job satisfaction was assessed according to
a score (ranging from 1 to 4) obtained on the basis of likert scale
questions, strongly agree (4), agree (3), disagree (2), strongly
disagree (1)

6.  *Statistical methods*

This is a descriptive study based on the survey method. Data collected
were analyzed using the statistical package for the social sciences
(SPSS). Descriptive statistics such as frequencies and percentages were
used to examine teachers' job satisfaction and stress levels (x2).

3.  **Result and Discussion**

    7.  *The reason to choose teaching as career*

Reason to choose teaching as career, majority of teachers think that (1)
*"teaching provides a good opportunity to further my studies"* (Mean \~
3.45), (2) *"enjoying working with children"* (Mean = 3.42), (3)
*"People (relatives/friends) recommended teaching as a field of study"*
(Mean = 3.03) **(Figure 3)**. On other hand, reasons that least selected
by our samples were *"As a teacher I only work half-day, with three/four
holidays a year" "Teaching provides a good salary"*, with mean of 1.92
and 2.07 respectively **(Table 2)**. It is suggested that the reason
that a large number of teachers decide to enter into teaching
profession, mainly because of passion and mission. Other factors, such
as salary and payroll are not considered significant.

**Table 2: Data collected on novice teachers' reason for choosing
teaching**

                                                                                    Strongly agree   Agree   Disagree   Strongly disagree   Missing   Mean   SD
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ---------- ------------------- --------- ------ -------
  With a teaching qualification I am assured of a job.                              8.75             57.19   26.25      2.81                5.00      2.76   0.655
  As a teacher I only work half-day, with three/four holidays a year.               1.56             15.94   52.50      26.56               3.44      1.92   0.707
  I view teaching as a calling.                                                     10.00            29.38   37.81      16.88               5.94      2.35   0.895
  People (relatives/friends) recommended teaching as a field of study.              20.31            62.19   10.94      3.13                3.44      3.03   0.673
  I have always enjoyed working with children.                                      43.44            53.44   2.19       0.00                0.94      3.42   0.537
  Teaching provides a good opportunity to further my studies.                       47.50            45.63   3.75       0.00                3.13      3.45   0.571
  Teaching gives me the opportunity to do a second job additional to my teaching.   3.44             23.75   55.94      14.06               2.81      2.17   0.709
  Teaching provides a good salary.                                                  1.56             18.13   62.19      14.38               3.75      2.07   0.631

[\[CHART\]]{.chart}

**Figure 3:** data collected on novice teachers' reason for choosing
teaching

Similar to the result findings, a number of studies report that a desire
to work with children and adolescents is dominant reason in drawing
individuals into a teaching career (Alexander et al., 1994; Joseph &
Green, 1986; Kyriacou & Coulthard, 2000; Moran et al., 2001; Richardson
& Watt, 2006; Tudhope, 1944; Valentine, 1934). Equally, according to an
OECD report (OECD, 2005), studies in France, Australia, Belgium (French
Community), Canada (Québec), the Netherlands, the Slovak Republic, and
the U.K. highlight the common selected reasons for choosing teaching as
a career are a desire to work with children and adolescents, the
opportunities for intellectual fulfilment, and contribute to society. In
contrast, findings showed in varied sociocultural settings such as in
Brunei (Yong, 1995), Zimbabwe (Chivore, 1988), Cameroon (Abangma, 1981),
and Jamaica (Bastick, 1999), have showed that the extrinsic motives to
be ultimate, in the form of salary, job security, and career status. It
seems evident that diverse sociocultural settings possibly form and
shape motivations for career choice, satisfaction and persistence.

The collected data of teachers' answer on whether they would choose
again their career **(Table 3)** shows that there are many different
perspectives, however 16.25% (52 teachers) of the sample wants to change
career. In which, previously 48 teachers were keens to choose teaching
as career because of enjoying working with children, and 42 teachers who
highly regarded teaching provides opportunity to further studies,
however these samples chose not select teaching as their career. The
difference between two answers of choosing teaching profession again and
the reason for being a teacher (P = 0.027 \< 0.05) shows that after a
period of working, they have changed mind in considering teaching as a
career. Although only small samples selected not to remain in teaching
career, yet with regards to the reason for choosing teaching, it's
essential to have adjustment in teacher policy.

**Table 3:** Comparison the two variables of reason for chosen teaching
as career vs choosing teaching profession again

                                                                Choose the teaching profession again   Strongly disagree   Disagree   Agree   Strongly agree   ***Total***   P - Value
  ------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------- ------------------- ---------- ------- ---------------- ------------- -----------
  I have always enjoyed working with children.                  Yes                                    0                   3          140     122              ***265***     0.027
                                                                No                                     0                   4          31      17               ***52***      
  Teaching provides a good opportunity to further my studies.   Yes                                    0                   4          123     133              ***260***     0.011
                                                                No                                     0                   8          23      19               ***50***      

Few researches notice that the rewards of salary and career prestige are
not a high priority for people decide later on a career change into
teaching (Crow et al., 1990; Mayotte, 2003; Priyadharshini &
Robinson-Pant, 2003; Richardson & Watt, 2005). In societies in which
career success is measured by salary, career prestige, and social
status, the decision to switch to a job that provides for personal
satisfaction, the rewards of making a social contribution, and a desire
to keep learning, is often seen as an ''implausible choice'' (Crow et
al., 1990, p. 197).

Recent work in the U.S. (Liu et al., 2000) suggests that the increasing
salary gap between teaching and other professions, poor working
conditions in schools, combined with the disappointments and hardships
from teaching are influential in why new teachers leave the profession.

Despite relatively high salaries in Germany, teachers perceive that they
have low social prestige (Baumert, Klieme, Oelkers, & Scheerens, 2003),
suggesting that salary alone does not result in perceptions of high
status.

The availability of part-time and casual work, together with defined
periods of leave during school vacation times, provide a high degree of
career flexibility sought perhaps mainly by women seeking to spend more
time with their families. This would appear to be the case in Germany,
where of the almost 50% of primary school teachers who are employed on a
part-time basis, 96% are female (Halász, Santiago, Ekholm, Matthews, &
McKenzie, 2004).

Weiss (1999) studied 1st- year teachers with data from the National
Center for Education Statistics (NCES) Schools and Staffing Survey
(SASS) for 1987--88 and 1993--94. She found that positive perceptions of
workplace conditions predicted a stronger commitment to teaching.

8.  *Factors affect novice teachers' job satisfaction*

The researchers studied the factors by examining the external
environment that influence the samples' (novice teachers) job
satisfaction. Researched on the perception on teaching career in the
community where the samples work and live showed that *"teaching is a
threat to the culture of my community" "my community will always see
teaching as a low status job" "it is changing (my community is starting
to see the value of teacher)"* have low mean of 1.27, 1.57 and 2.94
correspondingly. Whereas, teaching is highly regarded in the community
accounts high mean (3.37). The result exhibited the bright future and
repute of teaching in the teachers' community. The data can be analyzed
that the threat from surrounding community to the job is very minimal.

**Table 4:**

                                                                            Strongly agree   Agree   Disagree   Strongly disagree   Missing   Mean   SD
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ---------- ------------------- --------- ------ -------
  My community will always see teaching as a low status job                 0.94             2.81    46.88      46.88               2.50      1.57   0.602
  It is changing. (My community is starting to see the value of teacher.)   11.88            68.44   14.69      1.25                3.75      2.94   0.571
  Teaching is a threat to the culture of my community.                      0.94             0.94    21.25      73.13               3.75      1.27   0.525
  My community holds teaching in high regard.                               39.38            55.94   2.50       0.31                1.88      3.37   0.551

Novice teachers who experience high levels of job satisfaction are more
motivated, committed and determined to remain in the profession despite
job demands ([Tait,
2008](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib35)).
They are able to focus their attention and energy on the growth of
students and their own personal growth ([Lam & Yan,
2011](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib24)),
leading to enhanced teacher productivity and improved educational
outcomes ([Moè et al.,
2010](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib30)).
Several studies have concluded that job satisfaction has positive
consequences for the individual and the school ([Corbell et al., 2010;
Høigaard, Giske, & Sundsli, 2012; Malinen & Savolainen,
2016](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0742051X17307552#bib7)).
The data below (table..) indicates the factor most influence to the
novice teachers' job satisfaction is *"low prospects for promotion"*
(mean \~ 3.12) and *"low prospects of securing study leave to pursue
further studies/training"* (mean \~2.90). These issue are considered
most affect since the characteristics of teaching involves to children
and schools, hence days for leave of absence and promotion are limited.

**Table 5:**

                                                                             No obstacle at all   Minor obstacle   Medium obstacle   Serious obstacle   Missing   Mean   SD
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------- ----------------- ------------------ --------- ------ ------
  Too much work                                                              15.31                53.75            24.38             5.00               1.56      2.81   0.76
  Poor quality of Information and Communication Technology (ICT)             10.94                48.75            29.38             8.44               2.50      2.64   0.79
  Insufficient salary                                                        11.56                34.38            35.63             17.50              0.94      2.40   0.91
  Low prospects for promotion                                                37.50                36.25            20.63             2.50               3.13      3.12   0.83
  Lack of communication with other teachers                                  25.00                34.69            25.31             13.75              1.25      2.72   1.00
  Conflict with colleague(s)                                                 29.69                25.63            23.13             20.31              1.25      2.66   1.12
  Conflict with school management                                            27.50                26.56            26.25             18.13              1.56      2.64   1.08
  Conflict with educational authorities                                      31.88                22.81            23.75             20.00              1.56      2.68   1.13
  Insufficient number of in-service training opportunities                   14.38                32.19            31.56             20.00              1.88      2.42   0.97
  Low prospects of securing study leave to pursue further studies/training   27.50                40.63            21.88             7.81               2.19      2.90   0.90

Nevertheless *"Insufficient salary"* and *"insufficient number of
in-service training opportunities"* least affect to teachers. This
signaled that the teacher training currently improved, and majority of
teachers love their job.

With regarding to different school setting, the below table reveals the
factors affect teachers' job satisfaction in inner city, rural and
township areas.

**Table 6**

                                                                                 At what type of school are you employed?   Total        P-Value                    
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------------------------------------ ------------ ------------ ------------- -------
                                                                                 Inner City                                 Rural        Township                   
  **Too much work**                                                                                                                                                 
  Serious obstacle                                                               14.29%                                     50.00%       35.71%       100.00%       0.012
  Medium obstacle                                                                12.82%                                     55.13%       32.05%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 8.48%                                      61.21%       30.30%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             2.04%                                      79.59%       18.37%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.82%**                                  **62.09%**   **29.08%**   **100.00%**   
  **Poor quality of Information and Communication Technology (ICT)**                                                                                                
  Serious obstacle                                                               7.41%                                      77.78%       14.81%       100.00%       0.048
  Medium obstacle                                                                5.56%                                      56.67%       37.78%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 7.24%                                      62.50%       30.26%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             25.71%                                     60.00%       14.29%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.88%**                                  **61.84%**   **29.28%**   **100.00%**   
  **Insufficient salary**                                                                                                                                           
  Serious obstacle                                                               7.41%                                      50.00%       42.59%       100.00%       0.019
  Medium obstacle                                                                7.21%                                      60.36%       32.43%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 12.26%                                     67.92%       19.81%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             5.41%                                      70.27%       24.32%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.77%**                                  **62.34%**   **28.90%**   **100.00%**   
  **Low prospects for promotion**                                                                                                                                   
  Serious obstacle                                                                                                          25.00%       75.00%       100.00%       0.009
  Medium obstacle                                                                7.69%                                      55.38%       36.92%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 11.82%                                     59.09%       29.09%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             7.63%                                      69.49%       22.88%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.97%**                                  **61.46%**   **29.57%**   **100.00%**   
  **Lack of communication with other teachers**                                                                                                                     
  Serious obstacle                                                               2.27%                                      75.00%       22.73%       100.00%       0.018
  Medium obstacle                                                                2.60%                                      54.55%       42.86%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 13.08%                                     60.75%       26.17%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             12.66%                                     64.56%       22.78%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.79%**                                  **62.21%**   **28.99%**   **100.00%**   
  **Conflict with colleague(s)**                                                                                                                                    
  Serious obstacle                                                               1.61%                                      61.29%       37.10%       100.00%       0.002
  Medium obstacle                                                                5.71%                                      65.71%       28.57%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 8.54%                                      57.32%       34.15%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             16.13%                                     64.52%       19.35%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.79%**                                  **62.21%**   **28.99%**   **100.00%**   
  **Conflict with school management**                                                                                                                               
  Serious obstacle                                                               3.51%                                      52.63%       43.86%       100.00%       0.002
  Medium obstacle                                                                5.00%                                      67.50%       27.50%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 9.52%                                      63.10%       27.38%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             15.29%                                     63.53%       21.18%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.82%**                                  **62.42%**   **28.76%**   **100.00%**   
  **Conflict with educational authorities**                                                                                                                         
  Serious obstacle                                                               3.23%                                      75.81%       20.97%       100.00%       0.02
  Medium obstacle                                                                6.12%                                      63.27%       30.61%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 12.00%                                     51.00%       37.00%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             15.56%                                     66.67%       17.78%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.85%**                                  **62.30%**   **28.85%**   **100.00%**   
  **Insufficient number of in-service training opportunities**                                                                                                      
  Serious obstacle                                                                                                                                                  
  Medium obstacle                                                                                                                                                   
  Minor obstacle                                                                                                                                                    
  No obstacle at all                                                                                                                                                
  **Total**                                                                                                                                                         
  **Low prospects of securing study leave to pursue further studies/training**                                                                                      
  Serious obstacle                                                               4.00%                                      72.00%       24.00%       100.00%       0.007
  Medium obstacle                                                                3.03%                                      53.03%       43.94%       100.00%       
  Minor obstacle                                                                 8.73%                                      61.90%       29.37%       100.00%       
  No obstacle at all                                                             14.94%                                     66.67%       18.39%       100.00%       
  **Total**                                                                      **8.88%**                                  **62.17%**   **28.95%**   **100.00%**   

Novice teachers evaluated the influencing factors differently according
to their school location. With the scale from 1 to 4 (no obstacle at
all, minor obstacle, medium obstacle, serious obstacle), the results
showed huge difference in workload among samples, whereas 14.29% for
inner city areas and 50% for rural areas. Similarly, difference was also
found in poor quality of ICT (7.41% and 77.7%); insufficient salary
(7.41% and 50%). Regarding to promotion, the difference showed only in
rural areas and township areas (25% and 75%), whereas novice teachers in
inner-city areas gave no evaluation.

![](media/image3.jpg){width="6.515898950131233in"
height="3.622916666666667in"}

**Figure 4:**

The figure illustrates the affected factors to teachers' job
satisfaction, in which conflict with colleagues, school management, low
prospects of securing study leave and lack of communication with other
teachers were less worried in inner city area. In contrast, in rural
area the issue of promotion and work overload are mainly considered
disturbing and in township area the low prospect of promotion is also
very concerned among teachers.

4.  **Conclusion**

The early years of teaching is considered the most vital not only in
shaping teachers' professional competency, but also to the educational
system. Consequently, the national educational system may also
experience unexpected impact when novice teachers face the issues and
challenges in their early stage of profession development.

The literature suggests that examining teachers' perceptions about their
job conditions holds promise for understanding the reasons for teacher
turnover. Teachers' perceptions can inform policymakers of problem areas
in which intervention measures might bring about real improvement in
their professional commitment

Teachers' perceptions can inform policymakers of problem areas in which
intervention measures might bring about real improvement in their
professional commitment

**Conflict of Interest **

The author declare that they have no conflict of interest

References

Abangma, M. A. (1981). A study of primary teachers' attitudes towards
ruralisation of school curriculum in English speaking Cameroon. Unpub-
lished doctoral dissertation, University of London, UK

Alexander, D., Chant, D., & Cox, B. (1994). What motivates people to
become teachers. Australian Journal of Teacher Education, 19(2), 40-49

Amorim Neto, R. C., Rodrigues, V. P., & Panzer, S. (2017). Exploring the
relationship between entrepreneurial behavior and teachers\' job
satisfaction. Teaching and Teacher Education, 63, 254e262

Barber, M., & Mourshed, M. (2007). How the World's Best Performing
School Systems come out on Top. London: McKinsey and Company

Bastick, T. A motivation model describing the career choice of teacher
trainees in Jamaica. Paper presented at the Biennual Conference of the
International Study Association on Teachers and Teaching, July 1999,
Dublin

Baumert, J., Klieme, E., Oelkers, J., & Scheerens, J. (2003, 17e20
September). Comparison of education systems: understanding the
international variation of student achieve- ment. In Paper presented at
the ECER annual conference, Hamburg.

Bell, B. (1989) What the public thinks, Report: Assistant Masters and
Mistresses Association, 11(4), 10.

Bick-har Lam & Hoi-fai Yan (2011) Beginning teachers' job satisfaction:
the impact of school-based factors, Teacher Development: An
international journal of teachers\' professional development, 15:3,
333-348

Bogler, R. (2002). Two profiles of schoolteachers: A discriminant
analysis of job satisfaction. Teaching and Teacher Education, 18,
665--673.

Brief, A. P., & Weiss, H. M. (2002). Organizational behavior: Affect in
the workplace. Annual Review of Psychology, 53, 279--307.

Brookhart, S. M. & Freeman, D.J. (1992). Characteristics of Entering
Teacher Candidates, Review of Educational Research, 62.1, 37-60.

C.F. Mansfield, S. Beltman, T. Broadley, N. Weatherby-Fel. L (2016).
Building resilience in teacher education: An evidenced informed
framework. Teaching and Teacher Education, 54 (2016), pp. 77-87

Central Office of Information Research (2000) Attitudes towards teachers
- Public Opinion Survey: prepared for the General Teaching Council by
Central Office of Information. Available online at:
http://www.gtce.org.uk/research/opinionpoll.asp (accessed 24 October
2002).

Chaaban, Y. and Du, X. (2017). Novice teachers\' job satisfaction and
coping strategies: Overcoming contextual challenges at Qatari government
schools. Teaching and Teacher Education 67(2017), 340-350.

Chivore, B. S. R. (1988). A review of factors that determine the
attractiveness of teaching profession in Zimbabwe. International Review
of Education, 34(1), 59-77

Clotfelter, C. T., Ladd, H. F., & Vigdor, J. (2005). Who teaches whom?
Race and the distribution of novice teachers. Economics of Education
Review, 24(4), 377-392. 

Clotfelter, C. T., Ladd, H. F., & Vigdor, J. (2005). Who teaches whom?
Race and the distribution of novice teachers. Economics of Education
Review, 24(4), 377-392.

Cockburn, A. (2000). Elementary teachers' needs: Issues of retention and
recruitment. Teaching and Teacher Education, 16, 223--238.

Cohen, L., Manion, L. and Morrison, M. (2000). Research Methods in
Education, 5th ed., London: Routledge Falmer.

Collie, R. J., Shapka, J. D., & Perry, N. E. (2012). School climate and
social--emotional learning: Predicting teacher stress, job satisfaction,
and teaching efficacy. Journal of Educational Psychology, 104(4),
1189-1204. 

Collie, R. J., Shapka, J. D., & Perry, N. E. (2012). School climate and
social--emotional learning: Predicting teacher stress, job satisfaction,
and teaching efficacy. Journal of Educational Psychology, 104(4),
1189-1204.

Corbell, K. A., Osborne, J., & Reiman, A. J. (2010). Supporting and
retaining beginning teachers: A validity study of the perceptions of
success inventory for beginning teachers. Educational Research and
Evaluation, 16(1), 75e96.

Crow, G. M., Levine, L., & Nager, N. (1990). No more business as usual:
career changers who become teachers. American Journal of Education, 98,
197e223.

Cunningham, P. (1992) Teachers' professional image and the press,
1950--1990, History of Education, 21(1), 37--56.

Czubaj, C. (1996). Maintaining teacher motivation. Education, 116(3).

Department of Education, Science and Training. (2003). Australia's
teachers: Australia's future. Advancing innovation, science, technology
and mathematics. Canberra: Department of Education, Science and
Training.

Desimone, L. (2009). Improving impact studies of teachers' professional
development: Toward better conceptualizations and measures. Educational
Researcher, 38(3), 181--199

Dinham, S. S. (1997). Modelling teacher satisfaction: findings from 892
teaching staff at 71 schools. Chicago, IL

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1997). Modelling teacher satisfaction: Findings
from 892 teaching staff at 71 schools. Paper presented at the American
Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, April, Chicago, IL.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1997). Modelling teacher satisfaction: Findings
from 892 teaching staff at 71 schools. Paper presented at the American
Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, April, Chicago, IL.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1998). A three domain model of teacher and
school executive career satisfaction. Journal of Educational
Administration, 36(4), 362-378.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1998). A three domain model of teacher and
school executive career satisfaction. Journal of Educational
Administration, 36(4), 362-378.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (2000). Moving into the third, outer domain of
teacher satisfaction. Journal of Educational Administration, 38(4),
379-396. 

E.M. Skaalvik, S. Skaalvik (2015) **Job satisfaction, stress and coping
strategies in the teaching profession - what do teachers
say?**.International Education Studies, 8 (3) (2015), pp. 181-192

Field, J. (2008). *Job Satisfaction Model* . Retrieved
from [http://talentedapps.wordpress.com/2008/04/11/job-satisfaction-model-for-retention/.](http://talentedapps.wordpress.com/2008/04/11/job-satisfaction-model-for-retention/)

Fullan, M. G. (1993). Why teachers must become change agents,
Educational Leadership 50.6,12-17.

Gaikhorst, L., Beishuizen, J. J., Korstjens, I. M., & Volman, M. L.
(2014). Induction of beginning teachers in urban environments: An
exploration of the support structure and culture for beginning teachers
at primary schools needed to improve retention of primary school
teachers. Teaching and Teacher Education, 42, 23-33.

Glass, D. V. (Ed.) (1954) Social mobility in Britain (2nd edn) (London:
Routledge & Kegan Paul).

Gottfredson, L. S. (1981). Circumscription and compromise: A
developmental theory of occupational aspirations. Journal of Counseling
Psychology (Monograph), 28.6,545-579.

Grion, V., & Varisco B. M. (2007). On Line Collaboration for Building a
Teacher Professional Identity. Psychology Journal, 5(3), 271-284

Halász, G., Santiago, P., Ekholm, M., Matthews, P., & McKenzie, P.
(2004). Attracting, developing and retaining effective teachers. Country
note: Germany. Paris: OECD.

Hammond, M. (2002). Why Teach? A case study investigating the decision
to train to teach ICT, Journal of Education for  Teaching: International
Research and Pedagogy 28.2, 135-148.  

Hayes, S. (1990) Students' Reasons for Entering the Educational
Profession, Research Report (35 pp.). Oklahoma: North-western Oklahoma
State University. https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED366234.pdf

Helen M.G. Watt, Paul W. Richardson, Uta Klusmann, Mareike Kunter, Beate
Beyer, Ulrich Trautwein, Jürgen Baumert. Motivations for choosing
teaching as a career: An international comparison using the FIT-Choice
scale. Teaching and Teacher Education 28(2012), 791-805.

Herzberg, F., Mausner, B., & Snyderman, B. B. (1959). The motivation to
work. Piscataway, NJ: Transaction Publishers.

Herzberg, F., Mausner, B., & Snyderman, B. B. (1959). The motivation to
work. Piscataway, NJ: Transaction Publishers.

Høigaard, R., Giske, R., & Sundsli, K. (2012). Newly qualified
teachers\' work engagement and teacher efficacy influences on job
satisfaction, burnout, and the intention to quit. European Journal of
Teacher Education, 35(3), 347e357

Johnson, J. & Duffett, A. (2003) An assessment of survey data on
attitudes about teaching---including the views of parents,
administrators, teachers and the general public (New York, Public
Agenda). Available online at:
http://www.publicagenda.org/research/research\_topic.cfm (accessed 4 May
2004).

Johnson, S. M. (2004). Finders and keepers: Helping new teachers survive
and thrive in our schools. Indianapolis, IN: Jossey-Bass.

Johnson, S. M. (2004). Finders and keepers: Helping new teachers survive
and thrive in our schools. Indianapolis, IN: Jossey-Bass.

Joseph, P. B., & Green, N. (1986). Perspectives on reasons for becoming
teachers. Journal of Teacher Education, 37(6), 28-33

Journal of Educational Administration, 38 (4) (2000), pp. 379-396

Judge, H. (1995) The image of teachers, Oxford Review of Education,
21(3), 253--265.

Kardos, S., & Moore Johnson, S. (2007). On their own and presumed
expert: New teachers' experience with their colleagues. Teacher College
Record, 109(9), 2083-2106.

Kardos, S., & Moore Johnson, S. (2007). On their own and presumed
expert: New teachers' experience with their colleagues. The Teachers
College Record, 109(9), 2083-2106

Kyriacou, C., & Coulthard, M. (2000). Undergraduates' views of teaching
as a career choice. Journal of Education for Teaching: International
Research and Pedagogy, 26, 117e126

Kyriacou, C., Hultren, A. & Stephens, P. (1999). Student teachers'
motivation to become a secondary school teachers in  England and Norway,
Teacher Development 3, 373-381. \
L. Gaikhorst, J.J. Beishuizen, I.M. Korstjens, M.L. Volman. (2014).
Induction of beginning teachers in urban environments: An exploration of
the support structure and culture for beginning teachers at primary
schools needed to improve retention of primary school teachers

Lam, B. H., & Yan, H. F. (2011). Beginning teachers\' job satisfaction:
The impact of school-based factors. Teacher Development, 15(3), 333e348.

Lam, B. H., & Yan, H. F. (2011). Beginning teachers' job satisfaction:
The impact of school- based factors. Teacher Development, 15(3),
333-348.

Liu, E., Kardos, S. M., Kauffman, D., Preske, H. G., & Johnson, S. M.
(2000). Barely breaking even: Incentives, rewards, and the high costs of
choosing to teach. Har- vard Graduate School of Education.
http://www.gse.harvard.edu/wngt/Barely% 20Breaking%20Even%200700.PDF.

Locke, E. A. (1976).  The nature and causes of job satisfaction.  In M.
D. Dunnette (Ed.), *Handbook of industrial and* *organizational
psychology* (pp. 1297-1349). Chicago, IL: Rand McNally.

Malinen, O. P., & Savolainen, H. (2016). The effect of perceived school
climate and teacher efficacy in behavior management on job satisfaction
and burnout: A longitudinal study. Teaching and Teacher Education, 60,
144e152

Maslow, A. (1943). A theory of human motivation. Psychological Review,
50, 370-396

Mayotte, G. A. (2003). Stepping stones to success: previously developed
career competencies and their benefits to career switchers transitioning
to teaching. Teaching and Teacher Education, 19(7), 681e695.

Moè , A., Pazzaglia, F., & Ronconi, L. (2010). When being able is not
enough. The combined value of positive affect and self-efficacy for job
satisfaction in teaching. Teaching and Teacher Education, 26(5),
1145e1153.

Moore, C. M. (2012). The role of school environment in teacher
dissatisfaction among US public school teachers. SAGE Open, 2, 1-16.

Moore, C. M. (2012). The role of school environment in teacher
dissatisfaction among US public school teachers. SAGE Open, 2, 1-16

Moran, A., Kilpatrick, R., Abbott, L., Dallat, J. & McClune, B. (2001).
Training to teach: motivating factors and implications for recruitment,
Evaluation and Research in Education 15.1, 17-32.

Moran, A., Kilpatrick, R., Abbott, L., Dallat, J. & McClune, B. (2001).
Training to teach: motivating factors and implications  for recruitment,
Evaluation and Research in Education 15.1, 17-32  

Moran, A., Kilpatrick, R., Abbott, L., Dallatt, J., & McClune, B.
(2001). Training to teach: motivating factors and implications for
recruitment. Evaluation & Research in Education, 15(1), 17e32

MORI (2004) Annual survey of trust in professions. Available online at:
http://www.mori.com/polls/ 2004/bma.shtml (accessed 26 April 2004).

MORI (2005) Doctors top public opinion poll on trustworthy professions.
Available online at: http://www.mori.com/polls/2005/bma.shtml (accessed
18 March 2005).

OECD. (2005). Teachers matter: Attracting, developing and retaining
effective teachers. Paris: OECD Publishing.

Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. (2005). Teachers
matter: Attracting, developing and retaining effective teachers. Paris:
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

Priyadharshini, E., & Robinson-Pant, A. (2003). The attractions of
teaching: an investigation into why people change careers to teach.
Journal of Education for Teaching: International Research and Pedagogy,
29, 95e112.

R.D. Fantilli, D.E. McDougall (2009). A study of novice teachers:
Challenges and supports in the first years. Teaching and Teacher
Education, 25 (6) (2009), pp. 814-825

Ramsay, G. (2000). Quality matters. Revitalising teaching: Critical
times, critical choices. Report of the review of teacher education.
Sydney, Australia: NSW Department of Education and Training.

Ramsay, G. (2000). Quality matters. Revitalising teaching: Critical
times, critical choices. Report of the review of teacher education.
Sydney, Australia: NSW Department of Education and Training.

Rhodes, C., Nevill, A., & Allan, J. (2004). Valuing and supporting
teachers: A survey of teacher satisfaction, dissatisfaction, morale and
retention in an English local education authority. Research in
Education, 71(1), 67-80 

Rhodes, C., Nevill, A., & Allan, J. (2004). Valuing and supporting
teachers: A survey of teacher satisfaction, dissatisfaction, morale and
retention in an English local education authority. Research in
Education, 71(1), 67-80.

Richardson, P. W., & Watt, H. M. G. (2005). ''I've decided to become a
teacher'': influences on career change. Teaching and Teacher Education,
21(5), 475e489.

Richardson, P. W., & Watt, H. M. G. (2006). Who chooses teaching and
why? Profiling characteristics and motivations across three Australian
universities. Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education, 34(1), 27e56

Rustique-Forrester, E. & Haselkorn, H. (2002) Learning from the US, in:
M. Johnson & J. Hallgarten (Eds) From victims of change to agents of
change: the future of the teaching profession (London, Institute for
Public Policy Research).

S. Dinham, C. Scott (2000). **Moving into the third, outer domain of
teacher satisfaction.** Journal of Educational
Administration, 38 (4) (2000), pp. 379-396

Sergiovanni, T. (1967). Factors which affect satisfaction and
dissatisfaction of teachers. Journal of Educational Administration,
5(1), 66-82.

Shann, M. H. (1998). Professional commitment and satisfaction among
teachers in urban middle schools. The Journal of Educational Research,
92(2), 67-73.

Shann, M. H. (1998). Professional commitment and satisfaction among
teachers in urban in urban middle school. The Journal of Educational
Research, 92(2), 67-73.

Sinclair, C. (2008). Initial and changing student teacher motivation and
commitment to teaching, Asia-Pacific Journal of  Teacher Education 36.2,
79-104  

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2011). Teacher job satisfaction and
motivation to leave the teaching profession: Relations with school
context, feeling of belonging, and emotional exhaustion. Teaching and
Teacher Education, 27(6), 1029-1038.

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2011). Teacher job satisfaction and
motivation to leave the teaching profession: Relations with school
context, feeling of belonging, and emotional exhaustion. Teaching and
Teacher Education, 27(6), 1029-1038.

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2011). Teacher job satisfaction and
motivation to leave the teaching profession: Relations with school
context, feeling of belonging, and emotional exhaustion. Teaching and
Teacher Education, 27(6), 1029-1038.

Stiegelbauer, S. (1992). \"Why We Want to Be Teachers: New teachers talk
about their reasons for entering the profession\" Paper presented at the
Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San
Francisco, April 20-24, 1992.
<https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED348367.pdf>

Super, D. E. (1953). A theory of vocational development. American
Psychologist 8, 185-190.

T. Lomas, J.C. Medina, I. Ivtzan, S. Rupprecht, F.J. Eiroa-Orosa (2017).
The impact of mindfulness on the wellbeing and performance of educators:
A systematic review of the empirical literature. Teaching and Teacher
Education, 61 (2017), pp. 132-141

Tait, M. (2008). Resilience as a contributor to novice teacher success,
commitment, and retention. Teacher Education Quarterly, 35(4), 57e75.

Teaching and Teacher Education, 42 (2014), pp. 23-33

Tim Everton , Penny Turner , Linda Hargreaves & Tony Pell (2007) Public
perceptions of the teaching profession, Research Papers in Education,
22:3, 247-265

Topkaya, E. Z. and Uztosun, M. S. (2012) Choosing Teaching as a Career:
Motivations of Pre-service English Teachers in Turkey. Journal of
Language Teaching and Research. 3 (1), 126-134.

Tudhope, W. B. (1944). Motives for choice of the teaching profession by
training college students. British Journal of Educational Psychology,
14, 129e141

Valentine, C. W. (1934). An enquiry as to reasons for the choice of the
teaching profession by university students. British Journal of
Educational Psychology, 4, 237e259.

Vroom, V. H. (1964). Work and Motivation. New York: John Wiley

Wei, R. C., Andree, A., & Darling-Hammond, L. (2009). How nations invest
in teachers. Educational Leadership, 66(5), 28-33.

Yong, B. C. S. (1995). Teacher trainees' motives for entering into a
teaching career in Brunei Darussalam. Teaching and Teacher Education,
11(3), 275-280.

Yoon, K. S., Duncan, T, Lee, S. W. Y., Scarloss, B., & Shapley, K.
(2007). Reviewing the evidence on how teacher professional development
affects student achievement. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of
Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for
Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational
Laboratory Southwest.

Weiss, E. (1999). Perceived workplace conditions and first-year
teachers' morale, career choice commitment, and planned retention: A
secondary analysis. Teaching and Teacher Education, 15, 861--879. 

Tran, V. D. and Le, M. T. L. (2015). School environment factors as
predictors for teacher's teaching efficacy, teacher stress and job
satisfaction. International Education Research, 3(2), 28-46.

Duong, M.Q. (2013). The effects of Demographic and Intuitional
Characteristics on job satisfaction of University Faculty in Vietnam.
International Journal of Academic Research in Progressive Education and
Development, 2(4), 78-92.

Czubaj, C. (1996). Teaching and Teacher Education. Education, 116(3).

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2010). Teacher self-efficacy and
teacher burnout: A study of relations. Teaching and Teacher Education,
26(4), 1059-1069.

Pepe, A. & Addimando, L. & Veronese, G. (2017). Measuring Teacher Job
Satisfaction: Assessing invariance in the teacher job satisfaction scale
(TJSS) Across six countries. Europe\'s Journal of Psychology, 2017, Vol.
13(3), 396--416

[^1]: ^Education\ at\ a\ Glance,\ OECD.\ 2011.\ Page\ 248.^

[^2]: Skilling Up Vietnam: Preparing the Workforce for the Modern Market
    Economy, World Bank. November 2013

[^3]: Vietnamese Government. 2010. Socio-Economic Development Strategy
    for 2011-2015

[^4]: Resolution No 29/NQ-TW issued on 4th November 2013 of the 8th
    Conference of the 11th Session of the Central Executive Committee on
    Fundamental and Comprehensive Education Reform.

[^5]: Ibid.

[^6]: The MOET has recently submitted the National Teacher Education
    Program to the government for approval and authorization. These
    endorsements are expected before Negotiations.

[^7]: The MOET is currently developing a complementary program to
    reorganize and rationalize the network of TTIs. Once MOET finalizes
    and approves this program, it will take the lead in ensuring that it
    is closely coordinated with ETEP and NTEP, and that it effectively
    partners with the LTTUs. LTTUs can already collaborate with other
    TTIs and include this action in their Performance Agreement as
    appropriate.
