Teaching as a career and the influencing factors to novice teachers' job
satisfaction: Findings from seven provinces in Vietnam

Pham Thi Thanh Hai^a,^[^1]^,^ [^2], Bui Minh Trang^a,^[^3] , Nguyen Le
Thach^b^

^a^University of Education, Vietnam National University Hanoi, 144 Xuan
Thuy, Cau Giay, Hanoi, Vietnam

^b^Vietnam Institute of Educational Sciences, 101 Tran Hung Dao, Hoan
Kiem, Hanoi, Vietnam

Highlights

-   **Novice teachers choose teaching as a career mainly because of
    enjoying working with children**

-   **Novice teachers strongly satisfy with the administration staffs at
    the school**

-   **Novice teachers satisfy least with promotion, work conditions**

-   **Satisfaction factors are varied among novice teachers in different
    regions**

Abstract

The purpose of the study was to investigate what motivates novice
teacher to choose teaching as a career and measuring the factors affect
novice teachers' job satisfaction. Quantitative surveys were conducted
in 7 provinces in Vietnam, of 320 novice teachers participated. Result
showed that novice teachers chose teaching mainly because of enjoying
working with children and further study opportunity. The findings of the
variables associated with job satisfaction found that novice teachers
strongly satisfy with the [superiors and administration]{.underline} and
while least satisfy with [promotion, work conditions]{.underline}. The
data found that level of satisfaction was varied in different location
settings (rural, township and inner-city).

*Keywords:* novice teachers; job satisfaction; teaching career; work
performance; work motivation

1.  **Introduction**

A strong education system is widely viewed as being vital for developing
countries. Such a system needs competent teachers at its core. The
McKinsey\'s report titled \"How the world\'s best-performing school
systems come out on top\" provides ample evidence to suggest that the
quality of teachers is fundamental to the performance of students
(Barber and Mourshed, 2007). Increasingly many educators and researchers
agree. For example, student performance has been shown to be strongly
influenced by the professionalism of teachers (Desimone, 2009; Yoon et
al., 2007), as well as their international competitiveness (Wei et al.,
2009). But perhaps most importantly, a school\'s accomplishments and the
performance of its students are largely determined by how satisfied the
teachers are with their job (Pepe et al., 2017).

When it comes to job satisfaction, teaching as a profession comes with
great challenges (Mansfield et al., 2016). Many factors, including
working conditions, status, and accomplishments, affect a teacher\'s
actions and his or her teaching performance (Grion and Varisco, 2007).
Teachers also are among professions that report the highest level of
stress and dissatisfaction (Lomas et al., 2017). At a time when other
careers offer higher salaries, clearer pathways for development, greater
social prestige, and better working conditions (OECD, 2005; Ramsay,
2000), teaching seems to be less attractive than it was 30 years ago.
With increasing shortage of teachers, there has been global interest in
understanding what motivates people to choose teaching as a career, and
what motivates them to persist in it, especially since the job has
become more complex and demanding (OECD, 2005). Entering teaching
career, novice teachers have to spend few years to reach to the level of
expertise, however ironically before attaining that level approximately
40-50% of teachers quit the profession in the first five years (Fantilli
and McDougall, 2009). Several investigates point out the challenges that
novice teachers encounter in the transition to be as professionals,
including become sole responsibility and independence, deal with praxis
shock, reality shock or transfer shock (Chaaban and Du, 2017).

While a large body of research has been conducted in developed
countries, little has been done in developing countries (Liu and
Onwuegbuzie, 2014). In Vietnam, studies on teachers\' job satisfaction
are quite limited in scope. For example, Tran and Le (2015) concern only
high school level, while Duong (2013) addresses university level. This
study, in addressing this gap in research, attempted to build a body of
knowledge about teaching career and job satisfaction of the Vietnamese
novice teachers. In particular, the study was concerned with
understanding why this particular group chooses to become teachers, and
factors that affect their job satisfaction. The investigation was
carried out through a quantitative research of 320 novice teachers in
primary schools across seven Vietnamese provinces, from the North to the
South. It is hoped that the findings in this study will contribute to
the existing literature, and provide guidance for school management,
policy makers, and curriculum developers to improve the working
environment and commitment of and the support for novice teachers.

1.  *Teaching as a career*

The motives of teachers who select teaching as a career fall into three
main categories: extrinsic (e.g., salary or lengthy holidays), intrinsic
(e.g., interest, personal experience, or intellectual fulfillment), and
altruistic (e.g., the desire to contribute to the growth of others)
(Moran et al., 2001; Brookhart and Freeman, 1992). Indeed, the OECD
report highlighted the motivations in working with children and
adolescents, making a social contribution, making a difference, job
security, job benefits, enjoyment of teaching, compatibility with other
interests and activities, compatibility with family life, and
self-education, are the most important reasons shaping the decision of
teachers on career selection (OECD, 2005).

Since 1950s, several theories of career choice have been developed.
According to one of the earliest theories is Super's self-concept
theory, the question \"Who am I?\" is a determinative factor in an
individual\' choice of profession (Super, 1953). Yet Gottfredson claims
two variables that form the occupation choice: sex-type rating and
prestige level, in which individual select a career through considering
its appropriate to gender and its level of prestige (Gottfredson, 1981).

Mainstream of researches, both qualitative and quantitative, finds that
the motives behind choosing teaching as a career derive from intrinsic,
extrinsic and altruistic attractors. For example, the study of a group
of American prospective teachers suggest the altruistic reasons of
making a positive change in children\'s lives are most substantial for
entering profession (Hayes, 1990). Similarly, in Canada Stiegelbauer
(1992) suggests that the key motives for students becoming teachers are
the desire to create a difference in students\' lives and in society, as
well as to be mentor to students. On the other hand, Kyriacou et al.
(1999) place more emphasis on intrinsic reasons. In their study of
Norwegian and British context, majority of the pre-service teachers
choose the factor \"enjoying teaching\" and \"enjoying working with
children\" higher than the others. Yet, Sinclair (2008) finds that
primary pre-service teachers assert that work with children are their
fundamental motivations besides the work being intellectually
encouraging.

It is seemingly difficult to pinpoint the reasons teaching as a career
choice. Kyriacou et al. (1999) suggest that the differences in cultural,
social, and economic settings, as well as in subjects being taught by
the teachers cause the variation in response across the studies.
Certainly, motivations for career choice often stem from personal values
and expectations, experienced in particular sociocultural settings
within the context of different demand and reward structures (Watt et
al., 2012).

2.  *Job satisfaction in teaching*

Job satisfaction is considered a motivating factor, and refers to how
teachers generally feel about their jobs (Skaalvik and Skaalvik, 2015;
Locke, 1976). Job satisfaction stimulates teachers\' enthusiasm,
teacher-student relationships, and teacher retention (Skaalvik and
Skaalvik, 2010). When teachers are motivated and have a high degree of
job satisfaction, their students perform better and become more
motivated, resulting in the teachers themselves being motivated by their
students\' success. This positive cycle often continues (Czubaj, 1996).

One of the most well-known theories of job satisfaction in educational
settings is that of Herzberg, Mausner and Snyderman\'s (Dinham and
Scott, 2000). Dinham and Scott (1997) claim that different job
motivators affect and directly link to job satisfaction. Certainly, job
satisfaction has been attempted to explain as a dependent variable
described by numerous factors. According Maslow\'s hierarchy of needs
(1943), people have five categories of needs, following a specific
order. The theory is common used in comprehending human behavior. While
Herzberg et al. (1959) theory classify two set of job variables affect
people\'s attitudes toward their work: satisfiers include recognition,
responsibility for one\'s work, personal growth, achievement and
advancement; and dissatisfiers (hygiene factors) include relationships
with colleagues and supervisors, pay, work conditions and security. The
absence of hygiene factors can create job dissatisfaction, but their
presence does not motivate or create satisfaction. Satisfiers are
associated with long-term positive effects in job performance, while
hygiene factors consistently produce only short-term changes in job
attitudes and performance, which quickly fall back to its previous
level. Although Herzberg\'s two-factor theory has been widely applied,
it has also been criticized for being too reliant on a specific
methodology and the limitation in the category of satisfiers and
dissatisfiers. Vroom (1964) proposes that seven aspects should be
considered as the key components of job satisfaction, including:
administration, promotion, job nature, superiors, salary remuneration,
working conditions, and colleagues (Vroom, 1964).

Findings on job satisfaction of teachers show the positively effect to
individuals and schools in several studies (Corbell et al., 2010;
Høigaard et al., 2012; Malinen and Savolainen, 2016). Fantilli and
McDougall (2009) remark that a large amount of teachers exiting the
profession before making the impact on student achievement. Especially,
the first year is generally considered the most difficult in a teachers'
career, novice teachers have to involve all the same duty as experienced
teachers (Fantilli and McDougall, 2009). Tait (2008) emphasize that
despite job demand, novice teachers who have high levels of job
satisfaction are more motivated, committed and determined to remain in
the profession. Consequence the main attention and energy of novice
teachers are paid mainly to the growth of students and their own
personal growth (Lam and Yan, 2011), leading to increased efficiency and
improved educational outcomes (Moè et al., 2010). Chaaban and Du (2017)
affirm that with job satisfactions, novice teachers form healthier
connections among co-workers and collaborate better with supervisors. On
the hand, the factors, such as dissatisfaction with teaching
environment, hindrance in communicating with others, disappointment with
mentoring support, are often find in the novice teachers at threat of
quitting their job (Chaaban and Du, 2017).

Because of increasing concern about teacher satisfaction, Dinham and
Scott lead project to measure teacher motivation, satisfaction, and
health. The findings (Dinham and Scott, 1997) show that most significant
aspects in determining teacher satisfaction derived from intrinsic
factors of Sergiovanni (1967) and Herzberg et al. (1959). Although a
slightly difference from Sergiovanni's findings, Dinham and Scott see
altruism and personal growth to be the most influential intrinsic
factors. Other studies have discovered that teachers generally derive
job satisfaction from factors integral to the teaching, namely helping
children growth, developing good relationships with students, and
experiencing self-growth (Lam and Yan, 2011). These studies, similarly
to Dinham and Scott (1997), also show slight changes over time in the
specific intrinsic factors that influence teachers. Some studies show
that hygiene factors, including increasing workloads, the low status in
their society, and low salaries (Lam and Yan, 2011) as well as reduced
teacher autonomy (Moore, 2012; Shann, 1998) contribute to teacher
dissatisfaction. In general, the findings unanimously suggest that
intrinsic factors shape teacher job satisfaction.

While the similarities in these findings are significant, there is one
major difference. Dinham and Scott (1997, 2000) also identify so-called
school-based factors, which fall between the intrinsic rewards and
extrinsic hindrances, and which is where there is most variation among
schools. School-based factors include school leadership, climate and
decision making, and school reputation and infrastructure (Dinham and
Scott, 1997). These school-based factors differ from satisfiers because
they are not intrinsic to the teacher and they differ from hygiene
factors because they have the capacity to increase job satisfaction
(Dinham and Scott, 1998). Skaalvik and Skaalvik (2011) find that
teachers' sense of belonging, often associated with job satisfaction,
can be connected to supervisory support (Figure 2).

![](media/image1.png){width="2.3616294838145233in"
height="1.9712325021872266in"}

**Figure 1.** A three-domain model of teacher satisfaction.

Reprinted from Dinham & Scott (2000, p. 393).

School working conditions in fact can negatively affect to the job
satisfaction of novice teachers (Dinham and Scott, 1997; Lam and Yan,
2011; Rhodes et al., 2004). Novice teachers often report that they teach
classes in multiple rooms and have inadequate supplies or equipment
(Johnson, 2004). Collie et al., (2012) underline an association between
accessibility of resource and job satisfaction. The study of novice
teachers show that they have to handle more demanding tasks than their
experienced colleagues (Clotfelter et al., 2005; Johnson, 2004). In the
survey of 486 first- and second-year teachers, Kardos and Moore Johnson
(2007) reveal that 36% reported that they have heavy workload, and 52%
do not have enough time for planning and preparation. Lam and Yan (2011)
affirmed that *\"when the school environment allows for teachers to
focus on the core business of teaching and allows a reasonable work-life
balance, teachers are more likely to become engaged in teaching\"* (p.
345). To provide the basis for planning and policy decision and
enhancing teacher commitment in teaching career, this study investigated
specific variables commonly associated with job satisfaction and
dissatisfaction.

3.  *The Vietnamese educational context *

In Vietnam, education has always been a cornerstone of national
development, as the Vietnamese government reserves nearly 20 percent of
public expenditures for education (OECD, 2011). However, in the era of
globalization, there are concerns that the Vietnamese education system
falls short to equip its population with necessary skills in a more
competitive economy (Bodewig et al., 2014). In the Socio-Economic
Development Plan (SEDP) for 2011-2015, the government emphasizes that
rapid development of a skilled workforce is essential for modernization
and development of a knowledge-based economy.[^4]

In 2013, the Fundamental and Comprehensive Education Reform (FCER)[^5]
was adopted, which aimed for national education to meet \"the
requirements of industrialization, modernization, and international
integration in a socialist-oriented market economy.\" At its core, the
FCER advocates for learning that focuses more on competency of learners,
rather than contents, in general education (grades K-12). It aims to
improve students\' cognitive and behavioral skills, critical and
creative thinking, abilities to apply knowledge from multiple areas in
problem solving, teamwork, and communication skills (Resolution no.29,
2013). However, the realization of such a reform depends almost
exclusively on the preparedness of teachers to adopt the new pedagogical
model. Indeed, one of the principles of the FCER stresses that teachers
should be more professional and be ready to adapt to different,
constantly changing contexts. Hence, teachers are considered the core of
the reform process. Teacher training and support activities focus on
greater interaction between professionals, reciprocity, hands-on
mentorships, and coaching and on-time advice to teachers[^6].

Despite positive results in Vietnamese teacher education, there is a
lack of high quality, responsive, and continuous onsite professional
development for teachers. One of the biggest challenges is better
coordination among all involving actors in teacher education to meet new
demands. To address these challenges, the National Teacher Education
Program (NTEP), conceived by the Ministry of Education and Training
(MOET), contains a comprehensive strategy for teacher education
reform.[^7] It is expected to facilitate necessary changes to meet
training objectives in consideration of teachers\' needs. [^8]

2.  **Methodology and Method**

A survey research design is used to investigate job satisfaction of
primary school novice teachers in Vietnam as the survey samples in the
academic year 2016. The content of the survey focused on two main
issues: (i) the reason for chosen teaching as career; (ii) the main
factors that affect to the job satisfaction. From the findings, some
suitable adjustments for novice teachers are expected to be discussed.

4.  *Samples and settings *

The population for this study was all novice teacher in primary public
school in Vietnam (2016-2017 academic year), with the teaching
experience from 1-3 years.

The schools were selected using random sampling technique*.* The samples
are novice teachers in primary public schools across the country, in
seven provinces from north to south Vietnam, namely (1) northern
midlands and mountainous area (Ha Giang province), (2) northern Central
area (Nghe An province), (3) Red river delta area (Hai Phong province),
(4) coastal province in south central region (Quang Nam province), (5)
central highlands region (Gia Lai province), (6) south east region (Tay
Ninh province) and (7) Mekong delta region (Can Tho province).

Yamane Taro's (1967) simplified formula for proportion was applied to
determine the sample size, n = N/(1+N\*e^2^), whereas the population
size (N) = 874 and the acceptable sampling error (e) = 0.05 (confidence
level = 95% and p = 0.5), the minimum sample should be 274. Therefore,
the sample accounted for 36,61% of total number of 874 novice teachers
in 7 provinces during the period of the study. The table 1 showed the
number of novice teachers, data collected from Department of Education
and Training (2016).

**Table 1.** Samples data in 7 province

+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Location  | Number of school | Number of teachers | Number of novice teachers |
|           |                  |                    |                           |
|           |                  |                    | *(2% of teachers)*        |
+===========+==================+====================+===========================+
| Ha Giang  | 228              | 6,485              | 130                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Nghe An   | 465              | 11,440             | 229                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Hai Phong | 172              | 5,286              | 106                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Quang Nam | 230              | 5,663              | 113                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Gia Lai   | 300              | 7,591              | 152                       |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Tay Ninh  | 221              | 3,950              | 79                        |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| Can Tho   | 134              | 3,273              | 65                        |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+
| **Total** | **1,750**        | **43,688**         | **874**                   |
+-----------+------------------+--------------------+---------------------------+

*\*Source: Data collected from Department of Education and Training in 7
provinces of sampling*

The researchers distributed questionnaires to 320 participants, using
random sampling technique. From the total population in seven provinces,
74.02% of novice teachers worked at schools that locates in rural areas,
majority of the questionnaires were distributed to rural areas to ensure
the representativeness of sampling that generalize the population as a
whole. Therefore, location of schools was also classified into three
categories: (i) rural area, (ii) township area and (iii) inner-city
area.

A total of 320 anonymous questionnaires were distributed, and all of
them were returned, giving a response rate 100%. The participated
samples of 320 novice teachers, in which consisted of 17.19% male and
78.13% female. The fact that there were more women in the sample
reflects the real situation in Vietnam, whereby there are more female
teachers than male teachers in Vietnam primary schools. 60,31% of the
novice teachers participated in the survey were from rural areas.
Participants mostly were formally educated and fully trained, 30.94%
with degree in teaching, 28.95% with teaching certificate, 20% with both
degree and diploma/certificate, and 3.13% with postgraduate
qualification.

5.  *Instruments and procedure*

The questionnaire of the present study included general questions
related to the respondents' demographic and personal factors such as:
place of birth, ethnic, teaching experience, highest teaching
qualification, school location. An informed consent was also included
foremost in each questionnaire. Participants were informed and aware
about the confidentiality and disclosure of harm. The questionnaire
included questions on teachers' views on career, external environment
issues such as: reason for choosing teaching, self-evaluation on
teaching career in the country, personal and community perception on the
career, view of position in next 10 years. Furthermore, there were
questions on factors which affect teachers' satisfaction and performance
and their work and career expectations. Finally, open questions
were included regarding suggestion of how to improve teaching in the
country. The level of novice teachers' job satisfaction was measured
according to a score (ranging from 1 to 4) acquired on the basis of
Likert scale questions: strongly agree (4), agree (3), disagree (2),
strongly disagree (1).

6.  *Statistical methods*

This is a descriptive study based on the survey method through
questionnaires. Data collected were analyzed using the statistical
package for the social sciences SPSS version 22.0. Descriptive
statistics such as mean, standard deviation, percentages and frequency
were used to determine the reason for choosing teaching profession and
examine novice teachers' job satisfaction.

3.  **Result and Discussion**

    7.  *The reason to choose teaching as career*

Reason to choose teaching as career, majority of teachers think that (1)
*"teaching provides a good opportunity to further my studies"* (Mean \~
3.45), (2) *"enjoying working with children"* (Mean = 3.42), (3)
*"People (relatives/friends) recommended teaching as a field of study"*
(Mean = 3.03) (Figure 3). On other hand, reasons that least selected by
our samples were *"As a teacher I only work half-day, with three/four
holidays a year" "Teaching provides a good salary"*, with mean of 1.92
and 2.07 respectively (Table 2). It is suggested that the reason that a
large number of teachers decide to enter into teaching profession,
mainly because of passion and mission. Other factors, such as salary and
payroll are not considered significant.

**Table 2.** Data collected on novice teachers' reason for choosing
teaching

                                                                                    Strongly agree   Agree   Disagree   Strongly disagree   Missing   Mean   SD
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------- ------- ---------- ------------------- --------- ------ -------
  With a teaching qualification I am assured of a job.                              8.75             57.19   26.25      2.81                5.00      2.76   0.655
  As a teacher I only work half-day, with three/four holidays a year.               1.56             15.94   52.50      26.56               3.44      1.92   0.707
  I view teaching as a calling.                                                     10.00            29.38   37.81      16.88               5.94      2.35   0.895
  People (relatives/friends) recommended teaching as a field of study.              20.31            62.19   10.94      3.13                3.44      3.03   0.673
  I have always enjoyed working with children.                                      43.44            53.44   2.19       0.00                0.94      3.42   0.537
  Teaching provides a good opportunity to further my studies.                       47.50            45.63   3.75       0.00                3.13      3.45   0.571
  Teaching gives me the opportunity to do a second job additional to my teaching.   3.44             23.75   55.94      14.06               2.81      2.17   0.709
  Teaching provides a good salary.                                                  1.56             18.13   62.19      14.38               3.75      2.07   0.631

[\[CHART\]]{.chart}

**Figure 2.** Data collected on novice teachers' reason for choosing
teaching

Similar to our findings, a number of studies report that a desire to
work with children and adolescents is dominant reason in drawing
individuals into a teaching career (Alexander et al., 1994; Joseph &
Green, 1986; Kyriacou & Coulthard, 2000; Moran et al., 2001; Richardson
& Watt, 2006; Tudhope, 1944; Valentine, 1934). Equally, according to an
OECD report (OECD, 2005), studies in France, Australia, Belgium (French
Community), Canada (Québec), the Netherlands, the Slovak Republic, and
the U.K. highlight the common selected reasons for choosing teaching as
a career are a desire to work with children and adolescents, the
opportunities for intellectual fulfilment, and contribute to society. In
contrast, some research findings in varied sociocultural settings such
as in Brunei (Yong, 1995), Zimbabwe (Chivore, 1988), Cameroon (Abangma,
1981), and Jamaica (Bastick, 1999), have showed that the extrinsic
motives to be ultimate, in the form of salary, job security, and career
status. It seems evident that diverse sociocultural settings possibly
form and shape motivations for career choice, satisfaction and
persistence.

The collected data of teachers' answer on whether they would choose
again their career (Table 3) shows that there are many different
perspectives, however 16.25% (52 teachers) of the sample wants to change
career. Although only small samples selected not to remain in teaching
career, yet with regards to the reason for enjoying working with
children choosing teaching, this research however was limited to
understand in depth the fact why 52 teachers chose to other jobs than
teaching.

**Table 3.** Data collected on question if to choose the teaching
profession again

            Frequency   Percent
  --------- ----------- ---------
  Yes       267         83.44
  No        52          16.25
  Missing   1           0.31
            320         100.00

8.  *Factors affect novice teachers' job satisfaction*

The application of factor analysis resulted in the extraction of several
variables from the existing literature: namely recognition,
responsibility, pay, administration, superiors, promotion, work
conditions, colleagues, school leadership, school reputation and school
infrastructure. Collected data in our research exhibited the
significance of each factors influence to job satisfaction from novice
teachers (Table 4).

Researched on the **recognition** on teaching career in the community
where the samples work and live showed that *"teaching is a threat to
the culture of my community" "my community will always see teaching as a
low status job" "it is changing (my community is starting to see the
value of teacher)"* have low mean of 1.27, 1.57 and 2.94
correspondingly. Teaching is highly regarded in the community accounts
high mean (3.37). The results exhibited the bright future for teaching
in the teachers' community in which the threat of recognition from
surrounding community to the novice teachers showed very minimal. Weiss
(1999) studied 1st- year teachers with data from the National Center for
Education Statistics (NCES) Schools and Staffing Survey (SASS) for
1987--88 and 1993--94. She found that positive perceptions of workplace
conditions predicted a stronger commitment to teaching. Considering to
**personal growth**, in-service training showed least affect to
teachers. This signaled that teacher training opportunities currently
have improved and given to novice teachers. However, the prospective for
securing a leave among teachers was still limited since the elementary
school teachers in Vietnam have more works with the rate of 1.2 to 1.5
teachers/class (according to the Vietnam Educational Law). Our data
showed that novice teachers were experiencing high level of
**responsibility** with work overload and oversized classes Zeytinoglu
et al. (2007) affirms that low job satisfaction, abilities, and heavy
work are connected. This may result from the change made by the Ministry
of Education and Training from half-day to full-day school program in
all elementary schools, teachers have to take care of all subjects
(except for physical education and special subjects). A low mean (2.4)
was demonstrated on the **pay**, novice teachers of course will have the
lower rate of payroll than experienced teachers which might threat to
their commitment to work. As Smith (1992) believes that job satisfaction
and salary can lead to cost reduction by reducing absences, task errors,
and turnover. Okpara (2004) also suggests that increasing payments and
benefits can lead to increased job quality. Supporting to the importance
of salary to teachers, the study in the U.S. (Liu et al., 2000) asserted
that the increasing salary gap between teaching and other professions,
poor working conditions in schools, combined with the disappointments
and hardships from teaching are influential in why new teachers leave
the profession. For the **administration**, novice teachers did not have
serious obstacles since Vietnam government has actively improved its
administrative procedures. Regarding to **superiors**, novice teachers
experienced least support and satisfaction however they classified their
head of department is competent, this might result from the hesitation
or communication between novice teachers and their supervisor/mentors
since they were new in the career. Indeed, Maghradi (1999) notes that
employees with greater satisfaction with supervision have greater
working experience. The **promotion** opportunities were likely low due
to the samples were all working in Vietnam public schools with an
established bureaucratic assessment for promotion and require years of
teaching experience. Undeniably, many studies pinpoint that the
possibility of promotion is a factor that contributes to teachers' job
satisfaction or dissatisfaction (Nias, 1996; Shan, 1998; Dinham and
Scott, 1998). Novice teachers showed less satisfied on **working
conditions** for teaching and learning which reflect the poor working
condition since majority of surveyed schools were from rural areas. Lack
of communication was showed when studying the data on **colleagues**.
Novice teachers might hesitate in communication with other experience
teachers, therefore they faced more difficulties while in few first
years of the career. Elementary school teachers in Vietnam have
professional team work only once per month and few opportunities for
class observation, therefore chance for interacting with other
colleagues was limited. For the school-based factors, leadership,
reputation and infrastructure were also investigated. The samples
satified with their principal, show no or very mininal negative results
when being asked. This showed that novice teachers were quite satisfied
with **school leadership** overall. Although majority of surveyed
schools are in rural areas, however the results showed a high mean of
satisfaction on **school reputation**. There was not much concern of
this factor. **School infrastructure** were also significant to studies
since it is proposed that increasing investment in technology likely
enhance employee job satisfaction regarding intrinsic and general
perspectives (Attar and Sweiss, 2010). Data from our research revealed
that the infrastructure in surveyed schools generally does not cause
major stress and obstacles to novice teachers.

**Table 4.** Factors evaluated by novice teachers

                                                                                                                      1       2       3       4       Missing   Mean   SD
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------- ------- ------- --------- ------ -------
  **Recognition**                                                                                                                                                      
  My community will always see teaching as a low status job                                                           46.88   46.88   2.81    0.94    2.5       1.57   0.602
  It is changing. (My community is starting to see the value of teacher.)                                             1.25    14.69   68.44   11.88   3.75      2.94   0.571
  Teaching is a threat to the culture of my community.                                                                73.13   21.25   0.94    0.94    3.75      1.27   0.525
  My community holds teaching in high regard.                                                                         0.31    2.5     55.94   39.38   1.88      3.37   0.551
  Parents value me as a teacher.                                                                                      0.94    18.44   34.06   45.94   0.63      3.26   0.781
  Society has a high regard for teachers.                                                                             1.25    18.44   33.44   45.94   0.94      3.26   0.767
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Personal growth**                                                                                                                                                  
  Insufficient number of in-service training opportunities                                                            14.38   32.19   31.56   20      1.88      2.42   0.97
  Low prospects of securing study leave to pursue further studies/training                                            27.5    40.63   21.88   7.81    2.19      2.9    0.9
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Responsibility**                                                                                                                                                   
  Too much work                                                                                                       15.31   53.75   24.38   5       1.56      2.81   0.76
  The classes at my school are overcrowded                                                                            0.63    40.31   45.31   12.19   1.56      2.69   0.690
  **Pay**                                                                                                                                                              
  Insufficient salary                                                                                                 11.56   34.38   35.63   17.5    0.94      2.4    0.91
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Administration**                                                                                                                                                   
  Administration staffs at the school are competent.                                                                  1.25    6.56    68.13   23.13   0.94      3.14   0.573
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Superiors**                                                                                                                                                        
  Conflict with educational authorities                                                                               31.88   22.81   23.75   20      1.56      2.68   1.13
  Conflict with school management                                                                                     27.5    26.56   26.25   18.13   1.56      2.64   1.08
  Management at my school is not supportive.                                                                          27.19   63.75   5.94    0.63    2.5       3.53   0.526
  I believe that my head of department is competent.                                                                          0.31    46.25   52.81   0.63      3.52   0.507
  **Promotion**                                                                                                                                                        
  Low prospects for promotion                                                                                         37.5    36.25   20.63   2.5     3.13      3.12   0.83
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Work conditions**                                                                                                                                                  
  My classroom is sufficient for teaching and learning.                                                               3.44    10.31   63.13   22.5    0.63      3.05   0.684
  There are sufficient resources (e.g. books) at my school to assist me in teaching.                                  0.31    14.06   60.94   23.75   0.94      3.09   0.628
  My school provides an effective environment for teaching and learning that contributes to my professional status.           0.94    64.38   33.44   1.25      3.33   0.490
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **Colleagues**                                                                                                                                                       
  Lack of communication with other teachers                                                                           25      34.69   25.31   13.75   1.25      2.72   1
  Conflict with colleague(s)                                                                                          29.69   25.63   23.13   20.31   1.25      2.66   1.12
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **School leadership**                                                                                                                                                
  I respect my principal.                                                                                                     1.25    26.69   68.13   0.94      3.68   0.495
  My principal values and supports my professional development                                                        0.63    1.56    53.44   43.75   0.63      3.41   0.561
  Principals are often appointed because they know the right people and not because of their competence.              20.63   67.50   10      0.94    0.94      1.91   0.586
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **School reputation**                                                                                                                                                
  I feel proud to be a teacher at my school.                                                                                  0.94    53.75   44.69   0.63      3.43   0.516
                                                                                                                                                                       
  **School infrastructure**                                                                                                                                            
  Poor quality of general social infrastructure (classroom, lighting, tools, etc.                                     15.31   38.13   27.5    16.56   2.5       2.54   0.95
  There is enough space for learners to play during break time.                                                       0.63    8.13    62.81   26.88   1.56      3.17   0.598
  Poor quality of Information and Communication Technology (ICT)                                                      10.94   48.75   29.38   8.44    2.5       2.64   0.79

With regarding to different school setting, the below figure (Figure 4)
revealed the factors affect novice teachers' job satisfaction in inner
city, rural and township areas. The results indicated that novice
teachers paid much concern on the salary, especially in the inner city
(mean\~2.48) and rural areas (mean\~2.51), the stress on salary in
township areas were lowest (mean\~2.18). Regarding to prospective for
promotion, the difference showed only in township areas (2.90), data of
novice teachers in inner-city (mean\~3.15) and rural areas (mean\~3.23)
were observed to have the the same level of concern. For the rural areas
and township areas, the highest concern was the promotion, while inner
city areas, colleague's relationship and the opportunities to pursue
further studies were more important.

![](media/image2.jpg){width="6.515898950131233in"
height="3.622916666666667in"}

**Figure 3.** Comparison of different school-located areas

Overall, considering the present of job satisfaction factors in novice
teachers, the samples were also asked to have vision of their career
prospective in the next 10 years (Figure 5). Result exposed that
majority would stay in the teaching profession with higher position,
there was only a small amount of 4.06% choose to leave the career.

![](media/image3.png){width="3.8664348206474193in"
height="2.355891294838145in"}

**Figure 5:** Question on seeing yourself in ten years' time

4.  **Conclusion **

The early years of teaching is considered the most vital not only in
shaping teachers' professional competency, but also to the educational
system. Consequently, the national educational system may also
experience unexpected impact when novice teachers face the issues and
challenges in their early stage of profession development. The
literature suggests that examining teachers' perceptions about their job
conditions holds promise for understanding the reasons for teacher
turnover.

Vietnam is a developing country and its government and educational
authorities always strive to implement the educational reform. To
internationalize education for global integration, one of the key
solution is to enhance the teacher's competency. More focuses have been
paid to teachers through reform programs (such as: ETEP, NTEP...). To
have an efficient and effective outcome, understanding of why teachers
choose to be in teaching career and stress and challenge that they
encounter during their early years of teaching which affect to the
satisfaction is vital. Hence, this research was essential for providing
an experimental basis to inform policymakers, curriculum developers of
problem areas in which intervention measures might bring about real
improvement in teacher work commitment and reducing turnover and for
researchers, school management to improve the working environment and
commitment of and the support for novice teachers.

Research findings showed that among many other reasons for choosing
teaching as a career, the most dominant reason of novice teachers in
seven provinces were enjoying working with children and opportunity for
further studies. Comparing to other professions in Vietnam, teaching is
not a well-paid career, the findings showed that salary is not a crucial
reason for teachers to choose this profession, which is very similar to
the findings of Alexander et al. (1994); Joseph & Green (1986); Kyriacou
& Coulthard, (2000); Moran et al., (2001); Richardson & Watt (2006);
Tudhope (1944); Valentine (1934). Interestingly, the study showed that
even if novice teachers have given a chance in selecting profession
again, they still choose to be in teaching profession.

Evaluate the contents on the satisfaction of teacher to their job, the
results exhibited all factors found in the existing literature. Novice
teachers have experienced low opportunities in (i) [promotion, (ii) work
conditions, (iii) lack of communication with colleagues, (iv) lack of
school infrastructure]{.underline}. However, high level of satisfaction
among studied samples showed in (i) [recognition by the community,
parents and society,]{.underline} [(ii) Administration staffs at the
school are competent, (iii) the head of department is competent, and
(iv) school provides an effective environment for teaching and learning
that contributes to the professional status]{.underline}. Indeed, novice
teachers who experience high levels of job satisfaction are more
motivated, committed and determined to remain in the profession despite
job demands (Tait, 2008), leading to enhanced teacher productivity and
improved educational outcomes (Moè et al., 2010). Several studies have
concluded that job satisfaction has positive consequences for the
individual and the school (Corbell et al., 2010; Høigaard et al., 2012;
Malinen and Savolainen, 2016). In fact, majority of novice teachers felt
proud to be teachers at their school.

However, the level was stressed varied according to the location
settings (rural, township and innercity). Novice teachers paid much
concern on the salary, especially in the inner city and rural areas than
township areas. For the rural areas and township areas, the highest
concern was exhibited to promotion, while inner city areas, colleague's
relationship and the opportunities to pursue further studies were more
important.

Although our study was limited only on quantitative data. The finding of
this paper is expected to provide the reference for planning and policy
decisions aimed at enhancing teacher work commitment and reducing
turnover and guidance for school management, and basis for researchers
to further study and improve the working environment and support for
novice teachers generally, and particularly in Vietnam.

**Acknowledgment**

This work was supported by the Vietnam National University, Hanoi
research fund \[grant number QG.16.85\]. We thank our colleagues from
VNU and Ministry of Training and Education for the support. We would
like to thank Duong Hoang for his valuable help to improve the
manuscript. The data presented, the statements made, and the views
expressed are solely the responsibility of the authors.

**Conflict of Interest **

The author declare that they have no conflict of interest

References

Abangma, M. A. (1981). *A study of primary teachers' attitudes towards
ruralisation of school curriculum in English speaking Cameroon*.
Unpublished doctoral dissertation. UK: University of London.

Alexander, D., Chant, D., & Cox, B. (1994). What motivates people to
become teachers. *Australian Journal of Teacher Education*, *19*(2),
40-49

Attar, G., & Sweiss, R., (2010). The relationship between information
technology adoption and job satisfaction in contracting companies in
Jordan*. Journal of Information Technology in Construction*,*15*, 44-63.

Barber, M., & Mourshed, M. (2007). *How the World's Best Performing
School Systems come out on Top*. London: McKinsey and Company

Bastick, T. (1999). A motivation model describing the career choice of
teacher trainees in Jamaica. Paper presented at the Biennual Conference
of the International Study Association on Teachers and Teaching, Dublin,
Ireland.

Bodewig, C., Badiani-Magnusson, R., Macdonald, K., Newhouse, D., &
Rutkowski, J. (2014). *Skilling up Vietnam: preparing the workforce for
a modern market economy (English). Directions in development; human
development.* Washington, DC: World Bank Group.

Brookhart, S. M. & Freeman, D.J. (1992). Characteristics of Entering
Teacher Candidates. *Review of Educational Research*, *62*(1), 37-60.

Chaaban, Y., & Du, X. (2017). Novice teachers\' job satisfaction and
coping strategies: Overcoming contextual challenges at Qatari government
schools. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, *67*(2017), 340-350.

Chivore, B. S. R. (1988). A review of factors that determine the
attractiveness of teaching profession in Zimbabwe. *International Review
of Education*, *34*(1), 59-77

Clotfelter, C. T., Ladd, H. F., & Vigdor, J. (2005). Who teaches whom?
Race and the distribution of novice teachers. *Economics of Education
Review*, *24*(4), 377-392. 

Collie, R. J., Shapka, J. D., & Perry, N. E. (2012). School climate and
social--emotional learning: Predicting teacher stress, job satisfaction,
and teaching efficacy. *Journal of Educational Psychology*, *104*(4),
1189-1204. 

Corbell, K. A., Osborne, J., & Reiman, A. J. (2010). Supporting and
retaining beginning teachers: A validity study of the perceptions of
success inventory for beginning teachers. *Educational Research and
Evaluation*, *16*(1), 75-96.

Czubaj, C. A. (1996). Maintaining teacher motivation. *Education*,
*116*(3), 372--378.

Desimone, L. (2009). Improving impact studies of teachers' professional
development: Toward better conceptualizations and measures. *Educational
Researcher*, *38*(3), 181--199.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1997). Modelling teacher satisfaction: Findings
from 892 teaching staff at 71 schools. Paper presented at the American
Educational Research Association Annual Meeting, Chicago, IL.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C. (1998). A three domain model of teacher and
school executive career satisfaction. *Journal of Educational
Administration*, *36*(4), 362-378.

Dinham, S., & Scott, C.  (2000). Moving into the third, outer domain of
teacher satisfaction. *Journal of Educational Administration*, *38*(4),
379-396.

Duong, M.Q. (2013). The effects of Demographic and Intuitional
Characteristics on job satisfaction of University Faculty in Vietnam.
*International Journal of Academic Research in Progressive Education and
Development*, *2*(4), 78-92.

Fantilli, R.D. and McDougall, D.E. (2009). A study of novice teachers:
challenges and supports in the first years. *Teaching and Teacher
Education*, *25*(6), 814-825.

Gottfredson, L. S. (1981). Circumscription and compromise: A
developmental theory of occupational aspirations. *Journal of Counseling
Psychology (Monograph)*, *28* (6), 545-579.

Grion, V., & Varisco B. M. (2007). On Line Collaboration for Building a
Teacher Professional Identity. *Psychology Journal*, *5*(3), 271-284 

Hayes, S. (1990). *Students' Reasons for Entering the Educational
Profession*. Research Report, Oklahoma: North-western Oklahoma State
University.

Herzberg, F., Mausner, B., & Snyderman, B. B. (1959). *The motivation to
work*. Piscataway, New Jork: Transaction Publishers.

Høigaard, R., Giske, R., & Sundsli, K. (2012). Newly qualified
teachers\' work engagement and teacher efficacy influences on job
satisfaction, burnout, and the intention to quit. *European Journal of
Teacher Education*, *35*(3), 347-357.

Johnson, S. M. (2004). *Finders and keepers: Helping new teachers
survive and thrive in our schools*. Indianapolis, IN: Jossey-Bass.

Joseph, P. B., & Green, N. (1986). Perspectives on reasons for becoming
teachers. *Journal of Teacher Education*, *37*(6), 28-33.

Kardos, S., & Moore Johnson, S. (2007). On their own and presumed
expert: New teachers' experience with their colleagues. *Teacher College
Record*, *109*(9), 2083-2106.

Kyriacou, C., & Coulthard, M. (2000). Undergraduates' views of teaching
as a career choice. *Journal of Education for Teaching: International
Research and Pedagogy*, *26*, 117-126.

Kyriacou, C., Hultren, A., & Stephens, P. (1999). Student teachers'
motivation to become a secondary school teacher in England and Norway.
*Teacher Development*, *3*, 373-381. 

Lam, B. H., & Yan, H. F. (2011). Beginning teachers' job satisfaction:
The impact of school- based factors. *Teacher Development*, *15*(3),
333-348.

Liu, E., Kardos, S. M., Kauffman, D., Preske, H. G., & Johnson, S. M.
(2000*). Barely breaking even: Incentives, rewards, and the high costs
of choosing to teach*. Cambridge: Harvard Graduate School of Education.

Liu, S., & Onwuegbuzie, A. J. (2014). Teachers' motivation for entering
the teaching profession and their job satisfaction: a cross-cultural
comparison of China and other countries. *Learning Environments
Research*, *17*(1), 75-94.

Locke, E. A. (1976).  The nature and causes of job satisfaction.  In M.
D. Dunnette (Ed.), *Handbook of industrial and* *organizational
psychology* (pp. 1297-1349). Chicago, IL: Rand McNally.

Maghradi, A. (1999). Assessing the effect of job satisfaction on
managers. *International Journal of Value-Based Management*, *12*, 1-12.

Malinen, O. P., & Savolainen, H. (2016). The effect of perceived school
climate and teacher efficacy in behavior management on job satisfaction
and burnout: A longitudinal study. *Teaching and Teacher Education*,
*60*, 144-152.

Mansfield, C. F., Beltman, S., Broadley, T., & Weatherby-Fell, N.
(2016). Building resilience in teacher education: An evidenced informed
framework. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, *54* (2016), 77-87.

Maslow, A. (1943). A theory of human motivation. Psych*ological Review*,
*50*, 370-396.

Moè , A., Pazzaglia, F., & Ronconi, L. (2010). When being able is not
enough. The combined value of positive affect and self-efficacy for job
satisfaction in teaching. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, *26*(5),
1145-1153.

Moore, C. M. (2012). The role of school environment in teacher
dissatisfaction among US public school teachers. *SAGE Open*, *2*, 1-16.

Moran, A., Kilpatrick, R., Abbott, L., Dallat, J. & McClune, B. (2001).
Training to teach: motivating factors and implications for recruitment.
*Evaluation and Research in Education*, *15*(1), 17-32.

Nias, J. (1996). Thinking about feeling: the emotions in teaching.
*Cambridge Journal of Education*, *26*(3), 293-306.

OECD \[Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development\]
(2011). *Education at a Glance 2011: OECD Indicators*. 

OECD \[Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development\] (2005).
*Teachers matter: Attracting, developing and retaining effective
teachers*.

Okpara, J. (2004). The Impact of Salary on Job Satisfaction. *The
Journal of Business in developing nations*, *8*(2004), 65-91.

Pepe, A. & Addimando, L., & Veronese, G. (2017). Measuring Teacher Job
Satisfaction: Assessing invariance in the teacher job satisfaction scale
(TJSS) Across six countries. *Europe\'s Journal of Psychology*, *13*(3),
396-416.

Ramsay, G. (2000). Quality matters. Revitalizing teaching: Critical
times, critical choices. Report of the review of teacher education.
Sydney, Australia: NSW Department of Education and Training.

Rhodes, C., Nevill, A., & Allan, J. (2004). Valuing and supporting
teachers: A survey of teacher satisfaction, dissatisfaction, morale and
retention in an English local education authority. *Research in
Education*, *71*(1), 67-80.

Richardson, P. W., & Watt, H. M. G. (2006). Who chooses teaching and
why? Profiling characteristics and motivations across three Australian
universities. *Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education*, *34*(1),
27-56

Sergiovanni, T. (1967). Factors which affect satisfaction and
dissatisfaction of teachers. *Journal of Educational Administration*,
*5*(1), 66-82.

Shann, M. H. (1998). Professional commitment and satisfaction among
teachers in urban middle schools. *The Journal of Educational Research*,
*92*(2), 67-73.

Sinclair, C. (2008). Initial and changing student teacher motivation and
commitment to teaching. *Asia-Pacific Journal of  Teacher Education*,
36(2), 79-104. 

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2010). Teacher self-efficacy and
teacher burnout: A study of relations. *Teaching and Teacher Education*,
*26*(4), 1059-1069.

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2011). Teacher job satisfaction and
motivation to leave the teaching profession: Relations with school
context, feeling of belonging, and emotional exhaustion. *Teaching and
Teacher Education*, *27*(6), 1029-1038.

Skaalvik, E. M., & Skaalvik, S. (2015). Job satisfaction, stress and
coping strategies in the teaching profession - what do teachers say?
*International Education Studies*, *8*(3), 181-192

Smith, P.C. (1992). In Pursuit of Happiness: Why Study General Job
Satisfaction?. In C.J Cranny, P.C. Smith & E. F. Stone (Eds.), *Job
Satisfaction* (pp.5-19). New York: Lexington Books. 

Stiegelbauer, S. (1992). Why We Want to Be Teachers: New teachers talk
about their reasons for entering the profession. Paper presented at the
Annual Meeting of the American Educational Research Association, San
Francisco, April 20-24, 1992.

Super, D. E. (1953). A theory of vocational development. *American
Psychologist*, *8*, 185-190.

Lomas T., Medina  J. C., Ivtzan I., Rupprecht S., & Eiroa-Orosa F. J.
(2017). The impact of mindfulness on the wellbeing and performance of
educators: A systematic review of the empirical literature. *Teaching
and Teacher Education*, *61*(2017), 132-141.

Tait, M. (2008). Resilience as a contributor to novice teacher success,
commitment, and retention. *Teacher Education Quarterly*, *35*(4),
57-75.

Tran, V. D., & Le, M. T. L. (2015). School environment factors as
predictors for teacher's teaching efficacy, teacher stress and job
satisfaction. *International Education Research*, *3*(2), 28-46.

Tudhope, W. B. (1944). Motives for choice of the teaching profession by
training college students. *British Journal of Educational Psychology*,
*14*, 129-141

Valentine, C. W. (1934). An enquiry as to reasons for the choice of the
teaching profession by university students. *British Journal of
Educational Psychology*, *4*, 237-259.

Vroom, V. H. (1964). *Work and Motivation*. New York: John Wiley.

Watt, H. M.G., Richardson, P. W., Klusmann, U., Kunter, M., Beyer, B.,
Trautwein, U., & Baumert, J. (2012). Motivations for choosing teaching
as a career: An international comparison using the FIT-Choice scale.
*Teaching and Teacher Education*, *28*(2012), 791-805.

Wei, R. C., Andree, A., & Darling-Hammond, L. (2009). How nations invest
in teachers. *Educational Leadership*, *66*(5), 28-33.

Weiss, E. (1999). Perceived workplace conditions and first-year
teachers' morale, career choice commitment, and planned retention: A
secondary analysis. *Teaching and Teacher Education*, *15*, 861--879. 

Yamane, Taro. (1967). *Statistics: An Introductory Analysis, 2nd
Edition*. New York: Harper and Row

Yong, B. C. S. (1995). Teacher trainees' motives for entering into a
teaching career in Brunei Darussalam. *Teaching and Teacher Education*,
*11*(3), 275-280.

Yoon, K. S., Duncan, T, Lee, S. W. Y., Scarloss, B., & Shapley, K.
(2007). *Reviewing the evidence on how teacher professional development
affects student achievement*. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of
Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for
Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational
Laboratory Southwest.

Zeytinoglu, I.U., Denton, M., Davies, S., Baumann, A., Blythe, J., &
Boos, L. (2007). Deteriorated external work environment, heavy workload
and nurses: Job satisfaction and turnover intention. *Canadian Public
Policy*, *33*, 31-47.

[^1]: ^\*^Corresponding author. University of Education, Vietnam
    National University Hanoi, 144 Xuan Thuy, Cau Giay, Hanoi, Vietnam.

    *Email address:* haiphamtt\@vnu.edu.vn.

[^2]: 

[^3]: ^\*\*^ These authors contribute equally

[^4]: Vietnamese Government. 2010. Socio-Economic Development Strategy
    for 2011-2015

[^5]: Resolution No 29/NQ-TW issued on 4th November 2013 of the 8th
    Conference of the 11th Session of the Central Executive Committee on
    Fundamental and Comprehensive Education Reform (FCER).

[^6]: The MOET develops a complementary program to reorganize and
    rationalize the network of TTIs. Decision no. 956/QD-TTg approved on
    May 30, 2016 for Enhancing Teacher Education Program (ETEP) to all
    educational institutions to improve the competency of teachers and
    educational managers

[^7]: Decision no.732/QD-TTg of Vietnamese government issued on April
    29, 2016 for the approval of National Teacher Education Program
    (NTEP) to teachers and educational managers of all general
    educational schools in the period of 2016-2020.

[^8]: Ibid (3)
